Theresa May|Theresa May's speech on terrorism prevention and investigation measures|6 December 2012
This written ministerial statement was laid in the House of Commons on 6 December 2012 by Theresa May, and in the House of Lords by Lord Taylor of Holbeach.
Section 19(1) of the Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011 (the Act) requires the Secretary of State to report to Parliament as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of every relevant three-month period on the exercise of her TPIM powers under the Act during that period.
The level of information provided will always be subject to slight variations based on operational advice.
During the reporting period: one TPIM notice was imposed; no TPIM notices were extended; no TPIM notices were revoked; and no TPIM notices were revived.
A TPIM Review Group (TRG) keeps every TPIM notice under regular and formal review. The TPIM Review Group met twice during this reporting period.
No individuals were charged in relation to an offence under section 23 of the Act (contravening a measure specified in a TPIM notice without reasonable excuse) during the period.
Section 16 of the 2011 Act provides rights of appeal against decisions by the Secretary of State in relation to decisions taken under the Act. No appeals were lodged under section 16 during the reporting period.
Two judgments have been handed down by the High Court in relation to the review of TPIM notices under section 9 of the Act. In Secretary of State for the Home Department v CC and CF [2012] EWHC 2837 (Admin), handed down on 19 October 2012, the High Court upheld the TPIM notices imposed on CC and CF (and the control orders which they were subject to before the TPIM notices). CC and CF have applied for permission to appeal the judgment. In Secretary of State for the Home Department v CD [2012] EWHC 3026 (Admin), handed down on 5 November 2012, the High Court upheld TPIM notice imposed on CD. Most full judgments are available at http://www.bailii.org/.