Theresa May|Theresa May's speech on the Prevent review and the appointment of a new independent reviewer of terrorism legislation|9 November 2010
The Secretary of State for the Home Department (Theresa May):
I am pleased to announce today that the government is formally reviewing the Prevent strand of CONTEST, the UK’s counter-terrorism strategy.
That we need a preventative approach to terrorism is not in question: we have to deal with the causes of terrorism as well as its symptoms. But we want to avoid the mistakes of the previous government. The new Prevent strategy will follow the principles of our counter-terrorism legislation. It will be proportionate to the specific challenge we face; it will only do what is necessary to achieve its specific aims; and it will be more effective.necessary to achieve its specific aims; and it will be more effective. It will be separate from work to tackle wider forms of extremism and to promote integration, which is being led by the Department for Communities and Local Government.
The review will, amongst other things:
I am also announcing today a period of public consultation to enable delivery partners, frontline service providers and all other interested parties to participate in the review of Prevent. Contributions can be submitted by email preventreview@homeoffice.x.gsi.gov.uk or online (at http://preventreview.homeoffice.gov.uk).
I am pleased to announce that Lord Carlile of Berriew QC, the current reviewer of terrorism legislation, will provide expert, independent oversight of the Prevent review. His role is essential in ensuring that the review takes into consideration all the relevant information and looks at all the options.
I am also pleased to announce that I intend to appoint Mr David Anderson QC as the new independent reviewer of terrorism legislation. Mr Anderson QC is a specialist in European Union and Public Law and human rights and has been a QC for over 10 years. He is a recorder and visiting professor at King’s College London. I expect him to take up this role early in the New Year. Until then, I have extended the period of appointment of Lord Carlile of Berriew QC, as the current independent reviewer of terrorism legislation. During this period, Lord Carlile will also conduct a brief review of the arrests (and subsequent release) of six individuals under the Terrorism Act 2000 during the recent state visit to the United Kingdom by the Pope.
I am extremely grateful to Lord Carlile for his willingness to continue in his role, one he has performed with distinction.