Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Attends a Briefing With Senior Military Leaders|October 7, 2019
Well, thank you very much, everybody. This is a group gathering of very talented people. And somebody was saying before, I think Mark Esper, our new Secretary of Defense -- and, by the way, congratulations.
Congratulations on really having done already a really great job. But you were saying this is the first group where just about everybody -- theyre appointed by Trump. And thats good. Thats good. Just about everybody. So we have the people that we want. Were very happy with them. Our military is in great shape.
I want to -- in particular, I want to congratulate Mark for new -- the new boss, right? Youre the new boss. And its some somebody thats respected by everybody in this room and respected by just about everybody outside of this room, I can tell you. So, Joint Chiefs of Staff. The head is -- thats -- it doesnt get any bigger in your world.
But we are having a meeting tonight. We have a meeting now, and then were going to the White House and were going to have dinner with the wives and families. And were going to have some very interesting conversation. Things are going very well with our military. Weve spent $2.5 trillion since Ive been President, and rebuilt our military.
When I came in, we were low on ammunition and, as you know, we had jets that didnt work too well. We had a lot of -- a lot of old planes, and we have now, beautiful new planes, or certainly we have a lot of them coming, but we have a lot of them right now in stock. And were -- were doing things I think that nobody thought was possible.
We have had extraordinary relationships with a lot of our allies and, I would say, good relationships with others. But we want fairness, we want -- we want to be treated respectfully. We help a lot of nations, and they are not -- theyre not sometimes there for us. So we want to help the ones that -- that we want, and we want to help the ones that deserve the help.
And I think weve discussed this at length, all of us. Perhaps therell be some changes made, and perhaps not. But we have to be respected as a nation. A lot of things are changing. You have some very, very wealthy nations, extremely wealthy nations, where we take care of their military and we take care of their military needs.
Nobody can do it better than us. But we are really not being reimbursed for what were doing. And were having some very nice talks, very friendly talks. And for the most part, I would say, without exception, people are coming through and theyre saying, "You know, we have to help out also." So a lot of very exciting things are happening with our military.
We have a great team. This is our team right here. Theyre some of the best leaders in the world. I think theyre probably the best leaders in the world. We have the greatest men, we have the greatest women, and we have the greatest equipment. Nobody makes it like we do. So I just want to thank you all.
Well have a discussion. Then were going to go over and have dinner at the White House. And thank you all very much for being here. Appreciate it.
Well, weve been in Syria for a long time. And it was supposed to be a very short hit, and -- hit on ISIS. But it didnt work out that way. They never left. And theyve been there for many, many years. And we are -- we were down to very few soldiers in Syria. We had 50 in the region that youre talking about -- 50 soldiers -- and theyve been already moved out.
But well see what happens with respect to a lot of different things. Weve told Turkey -- I spoke with President Erdoğan of Turkey, and I said, "Got to treat them good, and you got to take care of ISIS." Dont forget, weve captured -- we defeated -- this group, largely -- defeated ISIS. One hundred percent of the caliphate.
One hundred percent. And we wanted to do 100 percent. I was going to do this nine months ago, and we were not at 100 percent, but we were pretty close. Everyone said, "Can we get to 100 percent?" Now I get to 100 percent, and they say, "Well, maybe we could stay longer." I say, "Well, when do we get out?" Theres got to be a time we get out.
We have to bring our people back home. And frankly, our great soldiers have been talking about this on the campaign. You go back three years ago and more, and you watch the speeches. We want to bring our soldiers back home. These are the endless wars. And were not fighting; were policing, to a large extent.
Were policing in certain areas. Were not police, were -- these are fighters, great fighters; the greatest in the world. And thats what they do. So Ive told President Erdoğan -- I hope hes going to treat everybody with great respect. You have to understand, theyve been fighting various of the people that we were working with, and they -- Turkey has been fighting them for many years.
Somebody said hundreds of years. You had just mentioned to me yesterday, 200 years, maybe more. At some point, we have to bring our people back home. And thats what were doing. Thats what were doing.
Its always a firm decision. Last time I made a firm decision, but -- and I said, "Well do it over a period of time." Weve been doing this, actually, over a period of time -- over a very long period of time. And weve been working with the people in this room, and our soldiers have been coming back over that period of time.
I think that one of the very big factors when we defeated ISIS -- we have thousands right now, of ISIS fighters and families. We have family members, wives, children. And many of them come out of Europe, they come out of Germany, they come out of France and other countries of Europe, and I told them, "You have to take these people back." You have to take them back, give them trials, do whatever you have to do. And they said, "No, we dont want to do that.
I said, "Well, you have to do that." Thats not fair to the American taxpayers. Its not fair to America. Its not fair to the United States not to do that. But they chose not to do it. I said, "Again, you got to take them back." We cant take care of sixty, seventy thousand people. And were not going to move the fighters to Guantanamo Bay and take care of them for many, many years into the future.
Its not for us. We did you a great service, a great favor. We defeated the caliphate 100 percent, and now its time for Germany and France, and all of the nations where they came from, to take them back. And they chose no. And maybe theyll -- maybe theyre going to change their tune now. I dont know.
But in the meantime, well have to rely on the European nations. Well have to rely on various other nations -- as an example, Iran, Iraq, Turkey, Syria, Russia, and some other nations -- to take care of these fighters. But the American taxpayer is not going to spend 50 years of paying tax, or whatever it may be that theyre -- wherever they may be, for instance, Guantanamo, or, for instance, prisons in the United States.
The American taxpayer wont put up with that.
Not at all, because the call was a perfect call. You had stenographers, you had people that took it down exactly. It was a perfect call. Its just a scam. This is a scam by the Democrats to try and win an election that theyre not going to win in 2020. All you have to do is take a look at the polls, see what happened.
One poll had me up 12 points, 16 points, or 17 points. We -- just take a look at whats going on. The people understand its a scam. Theyre trying to win an election in 2020 by using impeachment. If you look at that call, its a perfect call. Its congenial. There was no pressure. And what did the head of Ukraine say?
What did the head -- did he say there was no pressure? Did his person say -- his top representative, his foreign minister, say there was no pressure whatsoever. There was no pressure put on him. This is a scam. This is one of the greatest scams we -- Look, we beat you on the -- we won on the Mueller scam.
That was a whole big deal. That lasted for two and a half years. We had a few days of peace and then, all of a sudden, they came up with this one. But I guess its just part of my life. This is the most ridiculous thing many people have ever seen. All you have to do is read. All you have to do is read what they wrote down, the stenographers.
They wrote down an exact call. Now, what happened is Schiff, Adam Schiff, went up before Congress, and he read the most horrible speech, attributed the speech to me. These people wont believe this one. If you went to Annapolis, West Point, or the Air Force Academy, youre not going to believe this one happened.
He went up, and he took a speech, and he made it up. It was horrible. And he said, "The President of the United States said this on the call." Its a fraud. He real- -- I mean, its a fraudulent speech. What he did is incredible. And it shouldnt be allowed. And I dont think its going to be allowed.
I think a lot of things are happening. By the way, Nancy Pelosi knew it was a fraud, and she didnt say anything about it. But if you look at the call -- you just take a look at that call -- that call is a very -- a terrific call. Its congenial, there was no pressure, there was no anything. And you know it, and so do I, and so does everybody else.
And thats why the polls are doing well. Thats why -- I dont bring up fundraising, but thats why, I believe, in the history of the Republican Party at this time, theyve never had anything like the numbers that have been raised. They raised $13 million in many small donations in a 24-hour period. That hasnt even happened.
So, people understand that its a fraud. Its a scam. Its a witch hunt. And all we do is just keep fighting for the American people, because thats all I do. We win. Our economy is doing great. Our jobs numbers are the best theyve ever been. Just about the best theyve ever been for many groups: African Americans, Asians, Hispanics.
