Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump at a Carrier Plant in Indianapolis|December 1, 2016
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I love that red hat. Thank you, everybody.
I want to thank all of the dignitaries that are with us today. We have a whole host: the mayor, governor-elect, great people. Its a big victory for the governor-elect. He won very convincingly, so were very proud of him.
And, you know, Mike has been such a wise decision for me. When people were saying, I dont know. How good is he at decision making?" theyd always say
I want to thank Greg Hayes of United Technologies, because when I called him he was right there. I wish I could have made the call when they were doing their original decision, but it worked out just as well, other than I would have liked to have had an answer a year and a half ago.
We had a tremendous love affair with the state of Indiana. Because if you remember during the primaries, this was going to be the firewall. This was where they were going to stop Trump, right? And that didnt work out too well.
And it was a firewall -- for me it was a firewall. And we won by 16 points, and the election we just won by 20 points -- almost 20 points.
And that was some victory. Thats pretty -- thats pretty great. And I just love the people, incredible people.
So, I got involved because of the love affair Ive had. This has been a very special state to us. And Ill never forget, about a week ago I was watching the nightly news. I wont say which one, because I dont want to give them credit, because I dont like them much, Ill be honest.
I dont like them. Not even a little bit.
But they were doing a story on Carrier, and I say, Wow
And they had a gentleman, worker, great guy, handsome guy, he was on, and it was like he didnt even know they were leaving. He said something to the effect, No
And I said, Whats he saying?" And he was such a believer
And Im saying to myself, Man.
And then they played my statement, and I said, Carrier will never leave." But that was a euphemism. I was talking about Carrier like all other companies from here on in. Because they made the decision a year and a half ago.""nd then they played my statement
But he believed that that was -- and I could understand it. I actually said -- I didnt make it -- when they played that, I said, I did make it
So now because of him, whoever that guy was -- is he in the room, by any chance? Thats your son? Stand up, you did a good job.
You did a great job, right? Thats fantastic. And I love your shirt.
Oh, wow.
Put it on, cameras, go ahead. Put it on.
Well, your son is great. And he meant that, didnt he? He really meant it.
At first I said, I wonder if hes being sarcastic
You know, I dont know if you know, United Technologies is one of the top 50 companies in the United States, and one of the top companies anywhere in the world. They make many other things other than air conditioners, believe me. Their list of companies is incredible.
So I called Greg Hayes. I heard of him, but I never met him. And he picked up the phone, Mr. President-elect
I dont know, would you -- if I lost and called you I dont think you would have called. I would have tried for you, but I think it would have been tougher, right? What do you think, Greg?
Yes, hes sort of nodding yes, youre right.
But I called Greg and I said, Its really important
And I mean, I wrote down some numbers that are incredible, but the numbers of manufacturing jobs that are lost, especially in the Rust Belt -- and the Rust Belt is so incredible. But were losing companies, its -- its unbelievable, one after another, just one after another.
So I said, Greg
Anyway, he was incredible. And he said, I understand." And I said
Only because of your son, OK, believe me? Your son, whoever the hell your son is, these people owe him a lot. And I just went through -- hes out in the factory. I thought they were all going to be in this room. This rooms not big enough.
Yes, I know. I dont know who arranged that one. Because I had -- we just visited a thousand people in the factory that are going wild, in the plant. But I will tell you that United Technologies and Carrier stepped it up and now theyre keeping -- actually the numbers over 1,100 people, which is so great, which is so great.
And I see the people. I shook hands with a lot of the people. Theyre right behind us working. I guess, what is it, youre so -- youre making so many air conditioners you didnt want to even have them come off for a half hour. Hes a ruthless boss. Hes ruthless. But thats OK.
You know, I did say one thing to the Carrier folks and to the United Technologies folks. I said, the goodwill that you have engendered by doing this, all over the world, frankly, but within our country, you watch how fast youre going to make it up. Because so many people are going to be buying Carrier air conditioners. You know, weve had such help here.
Bobby Knight, nobody in Indiana ever heard of Bobby Knight. How great is Bobby Knight?
Lou Holtz, Gene Keady, we had such incredible support.
But Ill never forget, a friend of mine called up and said during the primaries, he said, you know, if you could get Coach Knight. And I said, you know, Coach Knight called me a year ago. This was a year before I decided to run. He said, if you ever run, Im supporting you.
I said, thanks, Coach, I just dont know if Im going to be doing it.
And then, when he said, if you could get Coach Knight -- Ill tell you, I got Coach Knight. How good was Bobby Knight as far as were concerned in Indiana? Is that right?
We got Bobby Knight. Nine hundred wins, two championships, right? Two, or three championships, Olympic gold medal, Pan Am Games. But -- and he was unbelievable. He wouldnt stop. He was just going all over. He was the greatest guy. We came into an arena, Greg, and we had 16,000 people inside, outside. We had I think 10,000 outside. It was...
And I left. This was three weeks before the primary, and I left. I said, how are we going to lose Indiana with this? I didnt think we were going to lose, and we didnt. We won big. But so I want to thank all of those folks because it really helped with Indiana, and with a lot of other cases.
So, United Technologies has stepped up. And I have to say this, they did it in such a nice and such a professional way. And theyre going to spend so much money on renovating this plant. And I said, Greg, say that number. You know, he said $16 million. Well, the minimum number is 16. Its going to be, in my opinion, a lot more than that. He said, well, Id rather say the lower number. See, Id rather have him say the higher number, so I wont say it. OK? Its just a difference in philosophy. Do you agree? Both are OK, but a difference in philosophy.
But theyre going to spend more than 16. Theyre going to spend a lot of money on the plant. And I said to some of the folks, I said, companies are not going to leave the United States any more without consequences. Not going to happen. Its not going to happen, Ill tell you right now.
Were losing our -- were losing so much.
So one of the things were doing to keep them is were going to lowering our business tax from 35 percent, hopefully down to 15 percent, which would take us from the highest-taxed national virtually in the world -- this is terrible for business -- to one of the lower taxed. Not the lowest yet, but one of the lower taxed.
The other thing were doing is regulations. The regulations are -- in fact, if I asked Greg and your folks, you would probably say regulations might be worse for you than even the high taxes, which is the biggest surprise of the whole political experience. I thought taxes would be number one. Regulations would be up there some place. Believe me, these great leaders of industry, and even the small business people who are just being crushed, if they have their choice between lower taxes and a major, massive cutting of regulations, they would take the regulations. I dont know how you feel about that, Greg.
But I just noticed -- I wrote down because I heard it -- since about six years ago, 260 new federal regulations have passed, 53 of which affect this plant. Fifty-tree new regulations. Massively expensive and probably none of them amount to anything in terms of safety or the things that youd have regulations for. Six of eight of the air conditioning companies right now are located in Mexico, six of eight. I mean, think of that. And 80 percent of the supply chain for Mexico -- 80 percent -- is located in Mexico. And were not going to have it any more. So, were not going to have it any more.
And we like Mexico. We think its wonderful. I was there three months ago with the president of Mexico. Terrific guy. But we have to have a fair shake. Were not getting anything. We have NAFTA, which is a total and complete disaster. Its a total and complete disaster.
Its a one-lane highway into Mexico. Nothing coming our way, everything going their way. And I dont have to mention who signed it anymore, its so nice. I dont have to mention who backed it anymore, right? We dont have to mention that anymore, fortunately.
But its a one-way street. And its going to be changed. Its going to be changed. We have to bring our jobs back. And when they expand -- one of the things that made me so happy is when Greg said that they have over 10,000 jobs that theyre going to be producing in the very near future, and now hes looking to the United States instead of outside of the United States, where almost all of those jobs would have gone.
So, one of the reasons I wanted to do this particular conference is its so great. So many people in the other -- that big, big beautiful plant behind us, which will be even more beautiful in about seven months from now. Theyre so happy. Theyre going to have a great Christmas. Thats most important.
But also, I just want to let all of the other companies know that were going to do great things for business. Theres no reason for them to leave anymore because your taxes are going to be at the very, very low end, and your unnecessary regulations are going to be gone.
We need regulations for safety and environment and things. But most of the regulations are nonsense -- become a major industry, the writing of regulations. And that these companies arent going to be leaving anymore. Theyre not going to be taking peoples hearts out. Theyre not going to be announcing, like they did at Carrier, that theyre closing up and theyre moving to Mexico -- over 1,100 jobs.
And by the way, that number is going to go up very substantially as they expand this area, this plant. So the 1,100 is going to be a minimum number.
So I just want to thank everybody and specifically I just have to thank the people that I met backstage -- incredible people -- the spirit, the love. People are crying. I mean, theyre all crying. And its taken us a little while, but think of this. I dont think we even announced we were running when this deal was originally announced.
And in the end, what happened is -- because that makes it much more difficult. I mean, its hard to negotiate when the plant is built. You know what Greg said? Greg said, But
But were going to do -- and theyre going to do fine with their plant. I dont know if theyre going to be able to do with an American company, but well figure that out.
But where were starting is from a much easier place. Thats hard, a year-and-a-half-ago they make an announcement. And, you know, all of that work is done. Which is why I have such respect. I would say great business people, they have flexibility. You know, if youre hardline, Well
But were not going to need so much flexibility for other companies because we are going to have a situation where theyre going to know, number one, were going to treat them well. And number two, there will be consequences, meaning they will be taxed very heavily at the border if they want to leave, fire all their people, leave, make product in different companies -- in different countries, and then think theyre going to sell that product over the border.
Which, by the way, will be a very strong border, a very strong border. Believe me.
And I think companies -- oh, were going to build the wall. People are saying: Do you think Trumps going to build the wall? Trust me, were going to build a wall. And by the way, people are going to come through that wall. Were going to have doors in that wall, but theyre going to come through legally.
And people are going to come through on worker permits to work the fields. Were going to have people -- a lot of people are going to come through. But its going to be done through a legal process.
But one thing thats not going to come through is drugs -- the drugs are going to stop.
The drugs are going to stop.
So, I just want to thank all of the people at United Technologies, most particularly you, because you are fantastic, Greg. I want to thank, and I want you to tell me how much -- how many air conditioning units you sold in the last six months from today, because I want to say I think its going to be a number that even will surprise your folks because of the tremendous goodwill that youve created.
I want to thank all of the workers at this plant, all of the Carrier workers most importantly.
I want to thank my great, great vice president-elect. Because, Ill tell you what, one of the really good decisions -- but I want to thank Mike. And were going to be doing this. And if I have to tell you, you know, doing speeches, Id say -- they say its not presidential to call up these massive leaders of business. I think its very presidential. And if its not presidential, thats OK. Thats OK. Because I actually like doing it.
But were going to have a lot of great people that can also do it, and do it as well as I do it. But were going to have a lot of phone calls made to companies when they say theyre thinking about leaving this country, because theyre not leaving this country. Theyre not going to leave this country. And the workers are going to keep their jobs.
And they can leave from state to state, and they can negotiate good deals with the different states, and all of that. But leaving the country is going to be very, very difficult.
So, I want to thank everybody. We love you folks. I want to really, really thank the people of Indiana. We had two massive victories in a very, very short period of time.
