Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Speaks at a St. Louis Fundraiser in Leaked Transcript|March 14, 2018

Well, this is a great honor, and a truly great company. We appreciate it. I want to thank Secretary Mnuchin for being here. I know you flew from a different direction, but its important economic development, even for Treasury, its very important.
What a, what a family and your sister, where is your sister? Your sister was in uniform before, where is she? See? Were very proud of you.
So, you know we have a lot of friends in this area, and I just stopped at a little place called Boeing.  Dennis is doing a good job. But we were just looking at some of the new planes without pilots, now. I mean, you know, look at them. Im saying, What about that one? It has no cockpit.
Dennis, tell me, whats going on? He said, Well, this plane doesnt have a pilot. This is where were going, I guess. But, what a job theyre doing. I want to thank a great friend of mine Congressman Jason Smith. Hes here someplace, where is Jason?
First off we have a situation so important here. Thats why Im here. Im here for this  big success, from what I understand. A  success. Thats a big success, isnt it?
Really. Its a testament to a wonderful guy whos running who knows what its all about. Hes somebody that can win. Hes leading the polls, just about every poll Ive seen. But there was one that was a little bit down. And thats the one you have to run on because you always have to run a little bit scared, right, a little bit scared.
But then I saw fortunately the following week it kicked back up, I got a little nervous.  But youre doing good, and I tell ya, every one of them. And, youre the one that can do it. And the whole the whole world is watching, really, we have to change things. And we need, we need those votes. We need the votes. Youll work on the filibuster once you get in there, right? I know that. Does anybody know what that means? Wouldnt it be nice if we had 51 instead of 60? Wouldnt that be nice?
Some day somebodys going to explain that do me. Whats going on here? But thats it. Some of the senators have been there, really, for a long time are just dead set on that. But were gonna get -- we have a chance to win a number of seats. And I think we have a really good chance to win a large number of seats, so well see what happens. Mr. Ashcroft, where is Mr. Ashcroft? I didnt see him. I met your son, by the way.  I met Johns son.
I said, Hey, wheres your father? He said, Hes up speaking, I said, Oh, okay. So, maybe Ill see him outside. Youre a terrific man, terrific family.
But we have a chance to do something thats going to be very important and it starts right here, it starts right here. And you know, last night, I dont know I guess the final results arent quite in, we had an interesting time because we lifted seven points up thats a lot. And I was up 22 points, and we lifted seven and seven normally would be enough, but well see. Well see how it all comes out. Its like virtually a tie.
Wheres our great Ronna, is she here? Ronna McDaniel, who ran Michigan for me. And we won the state of Michigan, first time since Reagan.  Two hundred and some odd thousand votes and it was a difference of four hundred and something, right? Four hundred and something votes. And I dont know whats going to happen but I know he came up a lot in the last few days.
We went there, we read his speech, the place was packed, and well see what happens. Its actually interesting because its only a congressman for about five months. I dont know about that one, Josh, its a lot of work for five months. They changed the district, theyre redistricting.
But well see what happens. But I told Josh just a little while ago, Im coming back here just before the race and well get, get a bigger  and get a big something, and well do a job.
The country is watching. This is one of the most important races because this is one that we can win because of Josh, we had to get Josh to do it. Once that was it just we havent ingested. Once that was , that was a big thing. Because you do need the right candidate, and we have a few of them, we have a few pretty good ones. You know about whats happening.
A couple of other guys joined and they are going to have great success. So we look forward to -- One of the things that we, that Josh actually mentioned that I think is probably underscored understated but very important is judges.
We are going to be appointing 145, came in 140 -- you know, my whole life Ive helped a few people become a federal judge. Not gotten it for them, but I helped and they never forget. Its a big deal. A federal judge.
So I come and theres this whole pile of papers on my desk -- these are federal judges, these are applications. I said, How many do we appoint? 145. 145! Because for two years, two and a half years, almost none were appointed by President Obama. So I say thank you, President Obama.
Well, we have 17 court of appeals judges. We had one Supreme Court judge whos done a fantastic job, Justice Gorsuch. And well see what happens on that score, but we have 145 judges and 17 court of appeals judges and weve appointed -- I guess weve had almost 30 approved already. And what difference thats making. Thatll be almost half of the judiciary will be appointed by us.
I mentioned before, we have to run on the tax cuts because that has become the most popular thing. Everybodys happy, the companies kicked in like crazy you know. The companies -- we didnt expect, when we did the tax cuts and you know they called it tax reform. I said, Do me a favor, dont call it tax reform, hasnt worked in 45 years, right?
Tax reform! People saying, Are you going to raise my taxes? Theyre reforming taxes! I said that means taxes to go up, and they said well, no, but its always called tax reform, I said, lets call it tax cuts. In fact, I said, they said what would you like to call it? Call it the tax cut cut cut plan.  They thought it sounded a little hokey, so we called it the tax cut and jobs plan.
I liked the first one better. We had no Democrat votes. Claire McCaskill was against it because shes party line. Its not that shes was against it. Shes party line. Shes going to go with the party line. Its like the young man last night that ran, he said, oh, Im like Trump. He said, I, I, you know, Second Amendment, all, everything. I love the tax cuts. Everything. You wouldnt have known. Its a pretty smart race, actually. But he ran and he ran on that basis.
But the bottom line is when he votes, hes going to vote with Nancy Pelosi. Hes going to vote with Pelosi, hes going to vote with Schumer, and thats whats going to happen. And theres nothing he can do about it, hes not going to vote with the Republicans. So it doesnt matter, what he feels doesnt matter. Claire McCaskill has voted against everything that we want.
Voted against everything that you stand for, and voted against these massive tax cuts that are bringing wealth back into families and bringing wealth into the state of Missouri and every other state. And she voted against, because this wasnt principle. This was the fact that she was told to vote that way, and she has to vote that way.
And if she didnt vote that way, the party would drop her very easily and wouldnt be around and wouldnt be spending lots of money on her and thats the way it is. So she voted against tax cuts and I believe that anybody that voted against that bill, I think it would be very hard to win an election.
So I think when you campaign when youre out there Josh, you should just keep bringing it up, she voted against. And I read an article and I thought it was very nice, actually. She said she said shes not going to say bad things about President Trump, I said, boy, I must be very popular in that state.
And last night, the young man also, he ran on a campaign, he said very nice things about me. I kept saying, is he a Republican? He sounded like a Republican to me. But I guess when youre popular in a certain area, thats probably a good tactic. But were not going to get her vote. So you have to defeat her. You have to defeat her. And if you dont, its just going to be Trump.
I mean, they could actually take away the tax cuts, they could take away your Second Amendment. Very importantly, judges, theyll start putting the judges that weve been having poured onto the court over the last eight years. You cant take it. I mean you just cant have it.
You see some of the decisions. How about the Ninth Circuit? Anytime you go. They always file in the Ninth Circuit, which says something -- look thats not right. No matter where theyre sued, they file in the Ninth Circuit. And they win, win, win and then they lose, usually the Supreme Court, hopefully they will. But its you know its a very unfair thing, it shows you how important it is to have fair people put on the bench.
So the judges are so important, I mean just so important. Were doing a lot of things. Companies are moving back into our country. Chrysler thats coming back from Mexico, you  hear that one? Its always theyre leaving from Mexico, someones leaving from Mexico, theyre always leaving for Mexico. And now, you have many, many companies coming back in, you have steel mills opening up, which hasnt happened in 30 years.
And the tariffs are just a form of, like, you just cant keep doing this to the outside world. And some of our worst abusers in terms of what they do on trade our so-called friends. You look in some of these countries that are our friends and you look at the trade deficits we have and its, its staggering. So thats just Phase One, but thats a little phase, but we have to get back the respect. You know we built ourselves as a great power, a great manufacturing power.
And then you look how so many jobs was taken. I mean NAFTA has been a disaster for this country. And I know it affected your , but you go up to New England, and theyre still paying the price of losing all of those jobs. And those are real jobs. Those are real, incredible, powerful, important jobs -- even for defense. We have to be able to make steel. We have to be able to have aluminum. We were at a point where we were going to lose all our steel factories, our steel mills, our plants, and we cant let that happen.
People said you know its sort of -- oh, well get our steel from China. Oh good. Lets see if we can, we have a national emergency. Were gonna get our steel from China. Its incredible.
Ive been using the expression, if you dont have steel you dont have a country. Theres a lot to it. This is like were making pencils. This is big stuff.
So since I announced this weve had numerous openings of plants and you have some that are going to open up or expand right here, and weve had a lot of, I mean, people are  to see a little bit differently. But we have to do whats called reciprocal tax, because we have countries that charge us 25 percent to get a car and they dont take the car anyway. Just so you know.
They have non=dollar barriers. okay, theyre non-dollar. You know what the barrier says? You cant sell in our country. Thats worse than heavy taxes. So we have countries and groups of countries, which is even worse.
European Union is very tough. You know, we had the European Union -- a lot of you came from Europe, right? Guess what. Theyre pretty smart. And they formed a group, and they make it very difficult, theyre very difficult traders. They have these barriers where you cant get your product in. No matter what you do, if you do get your product in, you pay dearly. China would be the biggest abuser. Theres no question about it.
So last year with China, we lost $500 billion, would you say that? Not million, 500 million, thats a lot. $500 billion. And its been that way for years, from $200 to $504 billion, every year. We rebuilt China, we actually did. You take that money away from China.
I mean we rebuilt it, and it all started with the World Trade Organization. If you look at China, its like this for many, many centuries.
World trade, its like a rocket ship, and much of it came right out of this country, got to stop it. And Im very friendly with the president, hes a great guy. We have a great chemistry, a great relationship. But hes for China and Im for the good old USA.
As an example, they send a car to us, we charge them a 2 percent tax. We send a car to them, and they charge us a 25 percent tax.
Somehow that doesnt work too well.
Thats not a great formula. But not only is it 25, 25, but most of the time you cant even get the car. Even Japan. Look, the prime ministers a great guy, Abe. Hes a warrior. Tough, strong, smart. But I said trade isnt so good with Japan. Its so one-sided. They dont take our product and we take their cars, I mean the cars and 90 percent of the cars, they just come.
They need Mario Andretti to drive those cars off the boats. They come off the boats like 60 miles an hour. We send a car to Japan, they analyze it for four weeks before they decide to send it back because its not environmentally friendly.  They actually, one of the car companies actually had a car made and it was the most environmentally perfect car, cost them a fortune. They spent a fortune. And they had everything, the highest quality that you can have.
Everything was far better than any car they ever sent to us. They spent three or four hundred thousand dollars for a car that would sell for like 35,000, right? Not a good deal. But they wanted to see if they could get it in. And it, they were going crazy. Four days went by. Then five days. And they were ready to approve it and they said, no no, we have to do one more test.
Its called the bowling ball test, do you know what that is? Thats where they take a bowling ball from 20 feet up in the air and they drop it on the hood of the car. And if the hood dents, then the car doesnt qualify. Well, guess what, the roof dented a little bit, and they said, nope, this car doesnt qualify. Its horrible, the way were treated. Its horrible.
And then you hear about the free traders, because Im a free trader, but Im like, I want to be a smart trader, I want to be a fair trader. Its so unfair whats happened to our country, and I dont know, the politicians have lost their way. In some cases like South Korea you know theyre making a fortune. Well we backed them many years ago.
But we never trade -- you know when they became rich we never changed the deal. So we were backing, backing, backing. And no politician ever changed the deal.
Now we have a very big trade deficit with them, and we protect them. So we lose money on trade, and we lose money on the military. We have right now 32,000 soldiers on the border between North and South Korea.
Lets see what happens. Think Ive done a good job with that one. Thats sort of interesting.
People are saying, oh, his rhetoric is terrible. Hes going to go -- well, the rhetoric from last 30 years hasnt been so good. It was called appeasement.
Please dont do anything. Obama, lets not talk about that. In the meantime, hes making nuclear weapons. He had a test, they had a test of a nuclear weapon about a year ago, and it registered as an 8.6. Now, you heard of that, on the Richter scale, right? So they said, man, there was an earthquake. Eight point six someplace in Asia. Where was it? Oh it was in North Korea.
It wasnt -- it was a nuclear test, and it shifted a mountain -- it was a real mountain. This isnt like a little, you know, 10-foot deal. Its not a hill. And it actually shifted. Thats the power. So theyre all saying, his rhetoric is terrible and so tough. Little Rocket Man, you know all this stuff. Its so terrible. Hes going to get us into a war. Well, you know whats going to get us into a war is weakness.  Massive sanctions on North Korea.
Massive, like nobodys ever been sanctioned. And in all fairness, China has really helped at the border. They could help more, but theyve done more for us than theyve done for any president, that I can tell you.
So heres a funny subject -- everybodys saying, oh, hes going to get us in trouble, in trouble. Then three weeks ago, you hear, wed love to go to the Olympics and participate.
Everybodys like, what? Where did that come from? So they participate in the Olympics, thats nice. Then the delegation comes over from South Korea and they just left North Korea, and they said Mr. President, Kim Jong Un would love to meet with you. And he will not do any testing and he will not do missile launches and he would love to meet with you.
I said really? Well. Thats good. I said how did that happen. And he said well, youre having an impact. They go out to the press, and the press is there, they were -- you never saw so many reporters. Because they heard there was a big announcement on North Korea. So the worst, like CNN, you know, fake news?
Erin Burnett said this could make him a great president.  Right? She said it. Shell probably lose her job.
But she actually said that -- this could make him a great president. Even the worst -- for two hours, three hours they couldnt believe. They said, did you hear what ha -- theyre looking at each other. Can you believe? Where did this come from, after 25, 30 years, where did this come from?
You believe what just come from after 25, 30 years from. And then it happened. A day later, Obama could have done that, too. Obama could not have done it.
Its really, you know, its really sad. Now, it was almost, you had to smile, because its so out of control. But what I heard -- and I woke up the next morning and said, finally Im getting some great stuff -- because got things, the taxes, the this, they were -- a lot of stuff.
Our militarys stronger now, and we just got $700 billion. We have to build it because its totally depleted. We dont have our military, were not going to be here. Well be walking into the doors.  Its jobs.
We make the greatest equipment in the world right down the street with Boeing and other places. And its jobs. But we have no choice. But when I heard that, I said, I wake up and I just heard the greatest statements from MSNBC, from CNN, from all the haters. I hear these -- they couldnt believe it.
Reporters. Professionals. The ones you see hating all the time. I say, this is the most incredible thing, weve never seen anything like it.
But by the time you woke up the next morning, they had a new line: Anybody couldve done it. Obama could have met. Bush could have met. I dont know how many Bush fans are in here. But Bush could have --  But they couldnt have met. Because nobody wouldve done what I did to set the table.
And this suffering, I dont want them to suffer. But theyre suffering. Lack of food, lack of everything. Nobody wouldve done that.
So you see the narrative change, because now theyre saying it will take at least two months to be able to negotiate. And so these are the people who say you will take two months to be able to negotiate. He shouldnt go there. And the greatest line is, President Trump has agreed to meet -- these are people who say I cant believe it. Unbelievable.
This is great news. This is the biggest thing thats happened in 40 years. The next day: President Trump has conceded a meeting with Kim Jong Un. Because he has met, he has already given them a victory because hes agreed to meet. I mean  media, right?  The greatest is when, you know, youre watching them, and these are the people who were so afraid it was going to be -- and then they say, and they say it was incredible and then they get back and their bosses tell them what to say. But they say maybe hes not the one to negotiate.
Hes got, hes got very little knowledge of the Korean Peninsula, and maybe hes not the one. Maybe we should send in the people that have been playing games and didnt know what the hell theyve been doing for 25 years.  What were finding there, and I dont know if you are now, is, its a beautiful young, beautiful couple that everybody thinks is a star, and he is a star, and I dont know how the press treats you.  Enjoy it while you can.
The better you do, the worse theyll  And I tell this Korea story because it was, it was somewhat of a miracle. Its actually far ahead of schedule. And you know, you hear that were making a major concession by agreeing to the meeting, you know, its the craziest thing. But go back a couple of weeks earlier and listen to what -- they were petrified.  They were afraid of being blown up. Then all of a sudden they say lets not meet.
So we are always a little bit of a disadvantage because of the media, and you have it here, I know you have it here too. But the advantage we have is the people are really smart. When I did the tariffs -- and basically what Im really saying, its not so much tariffs, its really saying we cant be taking advantage of anymore by these people that come in and dump everything into our country and destroy our mills and destroy our workers and destroy everything.
So when I did the tariffs, most people understand what Im doing is fighting for them, Im fighting for these companies that are being abandoned and the jobs that are being abandoned.
And thats why we have a lot of companies moving back in. I mean seriously, when you see whats happening you look -- were renegotiating NAFTA right now. I dont know that we can make it good.
I tell people openly, because the best deal is to terminate it and then make a new deal. But I dont know that we can make a deal because Mexico is so spoiled with this horrible deal that theyve lived with, from our standpoint horrible. So think of it, Mexico makes more than a $100 billion a year on the United States. Now, how stupid is this.
But sometimes something is so good that you cant -- how do you? The best way? Terminate, lets start all over again. Lets start all over again. But some of the politicians are afraid to terminate, oh, we dont want to terminate NAFTA. Take a look at these empty mills all over the place, that they turn into nursing homes, you know. Nice solid walls on the outside. But, its -- it just cant be.
I really think were making the point a lot of people are digging it. I will tell you, the people that really count, which is you, the workers, everybody, theyre really understanding whats going on. Nobodys done what Im doing. I mean its sort of really virgin territory.
Its absolutely virgin territory. Its territory that our country for 50 or 60 or 70 years has not wanted to go there. They just havent for whatever reason.
And our wealth has been taken, our jobs have been taken, our companies have moved, and now theyre starting to move back. So its, its a formula that is, its just absolute -- theres disruption, theres anger. And just remember, our friends that everybody says -- our allies, our allies are wonderful -- I love our allies. Our allies care about themselves, they dont care about us. You look at our trade deficit with these countries are our allies. Its unbelievable. And they understand it. I dont blame them.
I told Japan -- so we lose $100 billion a year with Japan -- 100 billion. So why arent we taxing their cars when they come in. Then wed lose nothing. We might even make something. And you know what theyre going to do, theyre going to say we dont want to pay that tax, so lets build plants in the United States. They already have some.
But theyll expand them and theyll build new plants. Because they dont want to pay the tax -- I want them to build new plants in the United States. Let them make United States here -- like China makes them do, we have a company, they want to build planes over there, hate to say it, Boeing is being forced to build plants. I dont like that, I dont like it, so Im not saying Chinas wrong.
I was with President Xi, I was with a big group of people, and I was saying how China is ripping off the United States. And hes like woo, this is uncomfortable.  700 press. Im saying China is ripping off our -- but I dont blame you. I say, its great that you were able to do it for yourselves. I blame the people that represented our country, because they were not doing their job -- they were delinquent in allowing this to happen to us. So we owe 21 trillion dollars. We lose 800 billion a year.
Josh will say, I dont think Im going to ruin  Think of it, Josh. We lose 800 billion a year on trade. Who made these deals? Who made these deals?
Then you have certain people that think its okay to lose 800. You know, these worldly people. You know why theyre worldly people, because they have stuff on the other side.  Thats what it is. Cant be any other reason. But we lose $800 billion a year on trade. We lose our jobs, we lose everything.
And its not happening anymore, because its starting to come back. But over the next few months, youre going to find it even more interesting. Because things are really -- you know, we have, statutorily you have to do this, this, this, wait 90 days, wait six months, you cant do it, youre not allowed to legally. We have agreements that are so bad.
We have one agreement with a trade. I said when does that agreement terminate, its terrible. Sir, there is no termination. I said, what do you mean? We dont have the right to term -- I said, well, okay, after 10 years, 20 years. No sir, there is no right of term -- I said what the hell kind of -- So you know what I did, I just terminated.
Which would mean thats, well call it unconstitutional. Theres no end date. Theres no nothing. Ill give you another example, Mexico, so they have this great deal. The day it was signed, it was a bad deal, because they have a 16 percent VAT tax, and we dont. So they were already up 16 percent before the deal. And nobody saw that. And by the time they realized it, the deal was gone. But instead of adjusting the deal -- what was that, 30 years ago when it was first signed -- instead of adjusting the deal, we lived with it. What the hell difference does it make?
So they had a 16 percent step up advantage on us, and they have for many years. And Mexico and Canada -- and, by the way, Canada, they negotiate tougher than Mexico. Trudeau came to see me, hes a good guy, Justin. He said, no, no, we have no trade deficit with you, we have none. Donald, please.
Nice guy, good-looking, comes in -- Donald, we have no trade deficit -- he was very proud, because everybody else you know were getting killed with our, so hes . I said wrong, Justin, you do. I didnt even know. Josh, I had no idea. I just said, youre wrong. You know why? Because were so stupid.  And I thought they were smart.
I said youre wrong, Justin. He said, Nope, we have no trade deficit. I said, Well, in that case, I feel differently, I said, but I dont believe it. I sent one of our guys out, his guy, my guy, they went out, I said, Check, because I cant believe it.
Well sir youre actually right. We have no deficit, but that doesnt include energy and timber. But when you do we lose $17 billion a year. Its incredible. So youre in good hands. And I need Josh to help
Claire McCaskill is a guaranteed negative vote on every single thing that you people stand for, and frankly that a vast majority of the people of Missouri stand for. It is a negative vote for our country. And you have to defeat Claire McCaskill. Last time she get very lucky. She got lucky -- she was going to lose. That was a done deal. And then, something happened. I was watching, I said, oh, what happened. That was big! The next day I said, oh yeah, I was right, I watched that.
