Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Meets with Shinzo Abe of Japan at The White House for a Bilat|April 26, 2019
Thank you very much. Its an honor to have my friend, Prime Minister Abe -- Japan. We have many things to discuss, including trade, including some of the numbers that just came out this morning. We had a very big number at 3.2 GDP for the first quarter -- usually the worst quarter. That also included the little bit of a dispute we had during the quarter.
So 3.2 is far above expectation. I guess many people were thinking it would be in the ones, maybe between one and two. And 3.2 is great. Knowing that first quarter seems to always be the lowest, were off to a very good start for the year. If we had the previous administrations low interest rates and quantitative easing, meaning pouring money into the system, that 3.2 could have been 5. Could have been a lot higher, but it could have been five.
So its really quite a -- I wouldnt like to say "surprise," but for a lot of people, it was a big surprise. Very big number. The Prime Minister just, two moments ago, said to me that "congratulations on your number." The 3.2 number was even a surprise to Japan. I just returned from Indiana, the big NRA conference, which was really terrific.
And the weather was very rough. They said we might have to circle for an hour. And I said, "I hope you dont have to do that, because we cant keep this great gentleman waiting." And we have the greatest pilots in the world, and we have awfully good equipment in Air Force One, so he landed it beautifully.
No problem. And tonight, the Prime Minister and the great First Lady of Japan will be having dinner with us. Were celebrating our First Ladys birthday. Its her birthday. So I said to Melania, "Would you like to have Mr. and Mrs. Prime Minister and Mrs. Abe join us for your birthday? And she said, "I cant think of anybody Id rather have." So well be having dinner tonight at the White House.
And well be actually, right after this meeting, having our representatives with us in the Oval and then a larger group of representatives in the Cabinet Room. And I think a lot will be accomplished. Were talking about a lot on trade. Its gotten very complex with whats happened to Brexit and whats happened with various other trade deals throughout the world.
Were doing very well in our negotiations with China. Some of our people are leaving for China on Monday. And were getting there. It could be very interesting. Well see. I dont like to talk about things, and I wont talk about things because who knows what happens. Lots of strange things can happen for better or worse.
But we are doing very well in those trade negotiations. And actually, we have a very big trade negotiation going on right now with Japan, which is, I would imagine, the primary reason that the Prime Minister is here. And the other thing well be discussing is trade, as it relates to our two countries. Japan is buying a tremendous amount of military equipment and other equipment from the United States.
We make the greatest jet fighters in the world, and missiles and rockets and everything else. We make the best in the world, by far. And well be discussing that. Well be discussing, very strongly, agriculture. Because, as the Prime Minister knows, Japan puts very massive tariffs on agriculture -- our agriculture -- going for many years, going into Japan.
And we want to get rid of those tariffs. Because we dont tariff their cars, so I think that that will -- something well work out. But this should have been done by previous administrations. Many previous administrations. Its been a long time, but Im sure well be able to work that out. And, ultimately, we have a chance to make a very good and long-term trade deal with Japan.
And tomorrow well be very early leaving for a quick round of golf on a beautiful place on the Potomac River. I wont name the place, but its beautiful. And so were going to play a quick round of golf. And then Im going to Wisconsin tomorrow. And we have a tremendous crowd tomorrow night for a speech and rally, and whatever you want to call it. Its very big.
A lot of people. We had 69,000 people sign up. And I think the arena holds about 10 . So itll be interesting. But its always that way. And theres a lot of great spirit in our country. Again, we had some great numbers released this morning. And our country is doing very, very well economically.
Doing very well with the military. Our military is being rebuilt -- all being built from within. All jobs within the United States. And our country is -- theyre very proud right now, whats happening. So, thank you very much for being here. And were going to have a lot of fun. Thank you. Please.
Thank you.
Good.
Good.
And it will be. It will be beautiful. Its always beautiful. Well, I want to thank you. The fact is that Japanese car companies are coming in at a level that we havent seen in many decades. Toyota is investing $14 billion over a short period of time, and others too. Theyre going to Michigan. Theyre going to Ohio, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina, Kentucky.
Were going -- were really getting a lot of business from Japan. I appreciate that. Were trying to bring some balance to the surplus that they have with the United States for many, many years. But itll all work out. Its all working out. But theyre making the biggest investments theyve ever made in the United States and, in particular, car companies.
Theyre really coming in. A lot of that has to do with our new agreements that weve been making, and some will have to do with the trade agreement that were in the process of making. That should even increase that number. So I very much look forward to discussing that today. As far as your very big event -- and thats a very big event -- and when we were in Japan together, we were talking about it and the invitation was made.
And I said, "Gee, I dont know if I can make it. Let me ask you a question: How big is that event compared to the Superbowl for the Japanese?" And the Prime Minister said, "Its about 100 times bigger."  I said, "Ill be there. If thats the case, Ill be there." So it really is. Its many years.
Isnt it 130 some-odd years that its happened? Its a very unusual -- its a very unusual thing. And youre talking about reigning through blood for over 3,000 years -- the longest in the world. So its a very, very big event. And maybe you could explain the event because its very exciting, actually.
Thats really nice. Well, thats really nice. And thats an honor on behalf of our country, not just the First Lady and myself. So we really do look forward to that. And I think, on a little bit lighter note, we will also be going, perhaps, to a sumo wrestling match. Ive always found that fascinating.
So, in fact, were having a trophy made in this country. Were going to give the trophy to the winner of the championship. So that should be good. And Im sure the media will like that. But I think something Ill enjoy very much. So we may very well be doing that. Well see what the time is. But again, Mr. Prime Minister, youre my friend and I really very much appreciate the visit.
And I think we will accomplish a lot. Well also be talking about, by the way, North Korea, where were working together very closely with others. And I think its going pretty well. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
I think it can go quickly. Yeah. I think it can go fairly quickly. Maybe by the time Im over there. Maybe we sign it over there. But its moving along very nicely, and well see what happens.
Well, I dont want to talk about that now. We have other things that were talking about. But Ill respond to that question at a later date, okay? Thank you.
Oh, I think absolutely. If you look at -- yeah, if you look at --
If you look at whats been happening and all of the things youve been seeing with the insurance policy statement from two agents that are now gone; if you look at many of the elements of intrigue -- and, frankly, were going to be seeing a lot over the next couple of weeks, things that a lot of people havent seen.
What took place here was a very, very terrible situation. How this whole ridiculous 35-million-dollar unlimited personnel -- how this all started, I think you will find of great interest. Most of you know the answer to it anyway. The fair press, the good press, the -- really, the people that know what theyre doing or the people that are indeed fair, they know the answer to it. So were going to see.
Its going to be very interesting. But what took place over the last period of almost two years -- and really, before that; it was really much before that. In all fairness to Robert Mueller, things happened long before he even started. And what took place is a disgrace to our country and it hurt our country.
