Donald Trump|Press Conference: Donald Trump at The White House|February 16, 2017
Thank you very much. I just wanted to begin by mentioning that the nominee for secretary of the Department of Labor will be Mr. Alex Acosta. He has a law degree from Harvard Law School, was a great student; former clerk for Justice Samuel Alito. And he has had a tremendous career. Hes a member and has been a member of the National Labor Relations Board, and has been through Senate confirmation three times, confirmed; did very, very well.
And so Alex, Ive wished him the best. We just spoke. And hes going to be -- I think hell be a tremendous secretary of labor.
And also as you probably heard just a little while ago, Mick Mulvaney, former congressman, has just been approved weeks late, I have to say that, weeks, weeks late, Office of Management and Budget. And he will be I think a fantastic addition.
Paul Singer just left. As you know, Paul was very much involved with the anti-Trump or as they say, "never Trump." And Paul just left and hes given us his total support. And its all about unification. Were unifying the party and hopefully were going to be able to unify the country. Its very important to me. Ive been talking about that for a long time. Its very, very important to me.
So I want to thank Paul Singer for being here and for coming up to the office. He was a very strong opponent, and now hes a very strong ally. And I appreciate that.
I think Ill say a few words, and then well take some questions. And I had this time. Weve been negotiating a lot of different transactions to save money on contracts that were terrible, including airplane contracts that were out of control and late and terrible; just absolutely catastrophic in terms of what was happening. And weve done some really good work. Were very proud of that.
And then right after that, you prepare yourselves, well do some questions, unless you have enough questions. Thats always a possibility.
Im here today to update the American people on the incredible progress that has been made in the last four weeks since my inauguration. We have made incredible progress. I dont think theres ever been a president elected who in this short period of time has done what weve done.
A new Rasmussen poll, in fact -- because the people get it -- much of the media doesnt get it. They actually get it, but they dont write it. Lets put it that way. But a new Rasmussen poll just came out just a very short while ago, and it has our approval rating at 55 percent and going up. The stock market has hit record numbers, as you know. And there has been a tremendous surge of optimism in the business world, which is -- to me means something much different than it used to. It used to mean, "Oh, thats good." Now it means, "Thats good for jobs." Very different.
Plants and factories are already starting to move back into the United States, and big league -- Ford, General Motors, so many of them. Im making this presentation directly to the American people, with the media present, which is an honor to have you. This morning, because many of our nations reporters and folks will not tell you the truth, and will not treat the wonderful people of our country with the respect that they deserve. And I hope going forward we can be a little bit -- a little bit different, and maybe get along a little bit better, if thats possible. Maybe its not, and thats OK, too.
Unfortunately, much of the media in Washington, D.C., along with New York, Los Angeles in particular, speaks not for the people, but for the special interests and for those profiting off a very, very obviously broken system. The press has become so dishonest that if we dont talk about, we are doing a tremendous disservice to the American people. Tremendous disservice. We have to talk to find out whats going on, because the press honestly is out of control. The level of dishonesty is out of control.
I ran for president to present the citizens of our country. I am here to change the broken system so it serves their families and their communities well. I am talking -- and really talking on this very entrenched power structure, and what were doing is were talking about the power structure; were talking about its entrenchment. As a result, the media is going through what they have to go through too often times distort -- not all the time -- and some of the media is fantastic, I have to say -- theyre honest and fantastic.
But much of it is not a -- the distortion -- and well talk about it, youll be able to ask me questions about it. But were not going to let it happen, because Im here again, to take my message straight to the people. As you know, our administration inherited many problems across government and across the economy. To be honest, I inherited a mess. Its a mess. At home and abroad, a mess. Jobs are pouring out of the country; you see whats going on with all of the companies leaving our country, going to Mexico and other places, low pay, low wages, mass instability overseas, no matter where you look. The middle east is a disaster. North Korea -- well take care of it folks; were going to take care of it all. I just want to let you know, I inherited a mess.
Beginning on day one, our administration went to work to tackle these challenges. On foreign affairs, weve already begun enormously productive talks with many foreign leaders, much of it youve covered, to move forward towards stability, security and peace in the most troubled regions of the world, which there are many. We have had great conversations with the United Kingdom, and meetings. Israel, Mexico, Japan, China and Canada, really, really productive conversations. I would say far more productive than you would understand.
Weve even developed a new council with Canada to promote womens business leaders and entrepreneurs. Its very important to me, very important to my daughter Ivanka. I have directed our defense community headed by our great general, now Secretary Mattis. Hes over there now working very hard to submit a plan for the defeat of ISIS, a group that celebrates the murder and torture of innocent people in large sections of the world. It used to be a small group, now its in large sections of the world.
Theyve spread like cancer. ISIS has spread like cancer -- another mess I inherited. And we have imposed new sanctions on the nation of Iran, whose totally taken advantage of our previous administration, and theyre the worlds top sponsor of terrorism, and were not going to stop until that problem is properly solved. And its not properly solved now, its one of the worst agreements Ive ever seen drawn by anybody. Ive ordered plan to begin building for the massive rebuilding of the United States military. Had great support from the Senate, Ive had great from Congress, generally.
Weve pursued this rebuilding in the hopes that we will never have to use this military, and I will tell you that is my -- I would be so happy if we never had to use it. But our country will never have had a military like the military were about to build and rebuild. We have the greatest people on earth in our military, but they dont have the right equipment and their equipment is old. I used it; I talked about it at every stop. Depleted, its depleted -- it wont be depleted for long. And I think one of the reason Im standing here instead of other people is that frankly, I talked about we have to have a strong military.
We have to have a strong law enforcement also. So we do not go abroad in the search of war, we really are searching for peace, but its peace through strength. At home, we have begun the monumental task of returning the government back to the people on a scale not seen in many, many years. In each of these actions, Im keeping my promises to the American people. These are campaign promises. Some people are so surprised that were having strong borders.
Well, thats what Ive been talking about for a year and a half, strong borders. Theyre so surprised, oh, he having strong borders, well thats what Ive been talking about to the press and to everybody else. One promise after another after years of politicians lying to you to get elected. They lied to the American people in order to get elected. Some of the things Im doing probably arent popular but theyre necessary for security and for other reasons.
And then coming to Washington and pursuing their own interests which is more important to many politicians. Im here following through on what I pledged to do. Thats all Im doing. I put it out before the American people, got 306 electoral college votes. I wasnt supposed to get 222. They said theres no way to get 222, 230s impossible.
270 which you need, that was laughable. We got 306 because people came out and voted like theyve never seen before so thats the way it goes. I guess it was the biggest electoral college win since Ronald Reagan. In other words, the medias trying to attack our administration because they know we are following through on pledges that we made and theyre not happy about it for whatever reason.
And -- but a lot of people are happy about it. In fact, Ill be in Melbourne, Florida five oclock on Saturday and I heard -- just heard that the crowds are massive that want to be there. I turn on the T.V., open the newspapers and I see stories of chaos. Chaos. Yet it is the exact opposite. This administration is running like a fine-tuned machine, despite the fact that I cant get my cabinet approved.
And theyre outstanding people like Senator Dan Coats whos there, one of the most respected men of the Senate. He cant get approved. How do you not approve him? Hes been a colleague -- highly respected. Brilliant guy, great guy, everybody knows it. Were waiting for approval. So we have a wonderful group of people thats working very hard, thats being very much misrepresented about and we cant let that happen.
So, if the Democrats who have -- all you have to do is look at where they are right now. The only thing they can do is delay because they screwed things up royally, believe me. Let me list to you some of the things that weve done in just a short period of time. I just got here. And I got here with no cabinet. Again, each of these actions is a promise I made to the American people.
Ill go over just some of them and we have a lot happening next week and in the weeks -- in the weeks coming. Weve withdrawn from the job-killing disaster known as Trans Pacific Partnership. Were going to make trade deals but were going to have one on one deals, bilateral. Were going to have one on one deals.
Weve directed the elimination of regulations that undermine manufacturing and call for expedited approval of the permits needed for America and American infrastructure and that means plant, equipment, roads, bridges, factories. People take 10, 15, 20 years to get disapproved for a factory. They go in for a permit, its many, many years. And then at the end of the process -- they spend 10s of millions of dollars on nonsense and at the end of the process, they get rejected.
Now, they may be rejected with me but its going to be a quick rejection. Not going to take years. But mostly its going to be an acceptance. We want plants built and we want factories built and we want the jobs. We dont want the jobs going to other countries. Weve imposed a hiring freeze on non-essential federal workers. Weve imposed a temporary moratorium on new federal regulations.
Weve issued a game-changing new rule that says for each one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. Makes sense. Nobodys ever seen regulations like we have. You go to other countries and you look at indexes they have and you say "let me see your regulations" and theyre fraction, just a tiny fraction of what we have. And I want regulations because I want safety, I want environmental -- all environmental situations to be taken properly care of. Its very important to me. But you dont need four or five or six regulations to take care of the same thing.
Weve stood up for the men and women of law enforcement, directing federal agencies to ensure they are protected from crimes of violence. Weve directed the creation of a task force for reducing violent crime in America, including the horrendous situation -- take a look at Chicago and others, taking place right now in our inner cities. Horrible.
Weve ordered the Department of Homeland Security and Justice to coordinate on a plan to destroy criminal cartels coming into the United States with drugs. Were becoming a drug infested nation. Drugs are becoming cheaper than candy bars. We are not going to let it happen any longer.
Weve undertaken the most substantial border security measures in a generation to keep our nation and our tax dollars safe. And are now in the process of beginning to build a promised wall on the southern border, met with general -- now Secretary Kelly yesterday and were starting that process. And the wall is going to be a great wall and its going to be a wall negotiated by me. The price is going to come down just like it has on everything else Ive negotiated for the government. And we are going to have a wall that works, not gonna have a wall like they have now which is either non-existent or a joke.
Weve ordered a crackdown on sanctuary cities that refuse to comply with federal law and that harbor criminal aliens, and we have ordered an end to the policy of catch and release on the border. No more release. No matter who you are, release. We have begun a nationwide effort to remove criminal aliens, gang members, drug dealers and others who pose a threat to public safety. We are saving American lives every single day.
The court system has not made it easy for us. And are even creating a new office in Homeland Security dedicated to the forgotten American victims of illegal immigrant violence, which there are many. We have taken decisive action to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of our country. No parts are necessary and constitutional actions were blocked by judges, in my opinion, incorrect, and unsafe ruling. Our administration is working night and day to keep you safe, including reporters safe. And is vigorously defending this lawful order.
I will not back down from defending our country. I got elected on defense of our country. I keep my campaign promises, and our citizens will be very happy when they see the result. They already are, I can tell you that. Extreme vetting will be put in place and it already is in place in many places.
In fact, we had to go quicker than we thought because of the bad decision we received from a circuit that has been overturned at a record number. I have heard 80 percent, I find that hard to believe, that is just a number I heard, that they are overturned 80 percent of the time. I think that circuit is -- that circuit is in chaos and that circuit is frankly in turmoil. But we are appealing that, and we are going further.
Were issuing a new executive action next week that will comprehensively protect our country. So well be going along the one path and hopefully winning that, at the same time we will be issuing a new and very comprehensive order to protect our people. That will be done sometime next week, toward the beginning or middle at the latest part. We have also taken steps to begin construction of the Keystone Pipeline and Dakota Access Pipelines. Thousands and thousands of jobs, and put new buy American measures in place to require American steel for American pipelines. In other words, they build a pipeline in this country, and we use the powers of government to make that pipeline happen, we want them to use American steel. And they are willing to do that, but nobody ever asked before I came along. Even this order was drawn and they didnt say that.
And Im reading the order, Im saying, why arent we using American steel? And they said, thats a good idea, we put it in. To drain the swamp of corruption in Washington, D.C., Ive started by imposing a five-year lobbying ban on White House officials and a lifetime ban on lobbying for a foreign government.
Weve begun preparing to repeal and replace Obamacare. Obamacare is a disaster, folks. It iss disaster. I know you can say, oh, Obamacare. I mean, they fill up our alleys with people that you wonder how they get there, but they are not the Republican people our that representatives are representing.
So weve begun preparing to repeal and replace Obamacare, and are deep in the midst of negotiations on a very historic tax reform to bring our jobs back, to bring our jobs back to this country. Big league. Its already happening. But big league.
Ive also worked to install a cabinet over the delays and obstruction of Senate Democrats. Youve seen what theyve done over the last long number of years. That will be one of the great cabinets ever assembled in American history.
You look at Rex Tillerson. Hes out there negotiating right now. General Mattis I mentioned before, General Kelly. We have great, great people. Mick is with us now. We have great people.
Among their responsibilities will be ending the bleeding of jobs from our country and negotiating fair trade deals for our citizens.
Now look, fair trade. Not free, fair. If a country is taking advantage of us, not going to let that happen anymore. Every country takes advantage of us almost. I may be able to find a couple that dont. But for the most part, that would be a very tough job for me to do.
Jobs have already started to surge. Since my election, Ford announced it will abandon its plans to build a new factory in Mexico, and will instead invest $700 million in Michigan, creating many, many jobs.
Fiat Chrysler announced it will invest $1 billion in Ohio and Michigan, creating 2,000 new American jobs. They were with me a week ago. You know you were here.
General Motors likewise committed to invest billions of dollars in its American manufacturing operation, keeping many jobs here that were going to leave. And if I didnt get elected, believe me, they would have left. And these jobs and these things that Im announcing would never have come here.
Intel just announced that it will move ahead with a new plant in Arizona that probably was never going to move ahead with. And that will result in at least 10,000 American jobs.
Walmart announced it will create 10,000 jobs in the United States just this year because of our various plans and initiatives. There will be many, many more, many more, these are a few that were naming.
Other countries have been taking advantage of us for decades -- decades, and decades, and decades, folks. And were not going to let that happen anymore. Not going to let it happen.
And one more thing, I have kept my promise to the American people by nominating a justice of the United States Supreme Court, Judge Neil Gorsuch, who is from my list of 20, and who will be a true defender of our laws and our Constitution, highly respected, should get the votes from the Democrats. You may not see that. But hell get there one way or the other. But he should get there the old-fashioned way, and he should get those votes.
This last month has represented an unprecedented degree of action on behalf of the great citizens of our country. Again, I say it. There has never been a presidency thats done so much in such a short period of time. And we have not even started the big work yet. That starts early next week.
Some very big things are going to be announced next week. So we are just getting started. We will be giving a speech, as I said, in Melbourne, Florida, at 5:00 p.m. I hope to see you there.
And with that, I just say, God bless America, and lets take some questions.
Mara, Mara, go ahead. You were cut off pretty violently at our last news conference.
Mike Flynn is a fine person, and I asked for his resignation. He respectfully gave it. He is a man who there was a certain amount of information given to Vice President Pence, who is with us today. And I was not happy with the way that information was given.
He didnt have to do that, because what he did wasnt wrong -- what he did in terms of the information he saw. What was wrong was the way that other people, including yourselves in this room, were given that information, because that was classified information that was given illegally. Thats the real problem.
And, you know, you can talk all you want about Russia, which was all a, you know, fake news, fabricated deal, to try and make up for the loss of the Democrats and the press plays right into it. In fact, I saw a couple of the people that were supposedly involved with all of this -- that they know nothing about it; they werent in Russia; they never made a phone call to Russia; they never received a phone call.
Its all fake news. Its all fake news. The nice thing is, I see it starting to turn, where people are now looking at the illegal -- I think its very important -- the illegal, giving out classified information. It was -- and let me just tell you, it was given out like so much.
Ill give you an example. I called, as you know, Mexico. It was a very, very confidential, classified call. But I called Mexico. And in calling Mexico, I figured, oh, well thats -- I spoke to the president of Mexico; I had a good call. All of a sudden, its out there for the world to see. Its supposed to be secret. Its supposed to be either confidential or classified, in that case.
Same thing with Australia. All of a sudden, people are finding out exactly what took place. The same thing happened with respect to General Flynn. Everybody saw this. And Im saying -- the first thing I thought of when I heard about it is: How does the press get this information thats classified? How do they do it?
You know why? Because its an illegal process and the press should be ashamed of themselves. But more importantly, the people that gave out the information to the press should be ashamed of themselves, really ashamed.
Yes, go ahead.
Because when I looked at the information, I said, "I dont think he did anything wrong; if anything, he did something right." He was coming into office. He looked at the information. He said, "Huh, thats fine." Thats what theyre supposed to do. Theyre supposed to -- he didnt just call Russia. He called and spoke to both ways, I think there were 30-some-odd countries. Hes doing the job.
You know, he was doing his job. The thing is, he didnt tell our vice president properly, and then he said he didnt remember. So either way, it wasnt very satisfactory to me. And I have somebody that I think will be outstanding for the position. And that also helps, I think, in the making of my decision.
But he didnt tell the vice president of the United States the facts. And then he didnt remember. And that just wasnt acceptable to me. Yes?
The failing New York Times wrote a big, long front-page story yesterday. And it was very much discredited, as you know. It was -- its a joke. And the people mentioned in the story, I notice they were on television today saying they never even spoke to Russia. They werent even a part, really -- I mean, they were such a minor part. They -- I hadnt spoken to them.
I think the one person -- I dont think Ive ever spoken to him. I dont think Ive ever met him. And he actually said he was a very low-level member of I think a committee for a short period of time. I dont think I ever met him. Now, its possible that I walked into a room and he was sitting there, but I dont think I ever met him. I didnt talk to him ever. And he thought it was a joke.
The other person said he never spoke to Russia; never received a call. Look at his phone records, et cetera, et cetera. And the other person, people knew that he represented various countries, but I dont think he represented Russia, but knew that he represented various countries. Thats what he does. I mean, people know that.
Thats Mr. Manafort, whos -- by the way, whos by the way a respected man. Hes a respected man. But I think he represented the Ukraine or Ukraine government or somebody, but everybody -- people knew that. Everybody knew that.
So, these people -- and he said that he has absolutely nothing to do and never has with Russia. And he said that very forcefully. I saw his statement. He said it very forcefully. Most of the papers dont print it because thats not good for their stories.
So the three people that they talked about all totally deny it. And I can tell you, speaking for myself, I own nothing in Russia. I have no loans in Russia. I dont have any deals in Russia. President Putin called me up very nicely to congratulate me on the win of the election.
He then, called me up extremely nicely to congratulate me on the inauguration, which was terrific. But so did many other leaders, almost all other leaders from almost all of the country. So thats the extent.
Russia is fake news. Russia -- this is fake news put out by the media. The real news is the fact that people, probably from the Obama administration because theyre there, because we have our new people going in place, right now.
As you know, Mike Pompeo has -- has now taken control of the CIA, James Comey at FBI, Dan Coats is waiting to be approved, I mean he is a senator and a highly respected one and hes still waiting to be approved. But our new people are going in.
And just while youre at it, because you mentioned this, Wall Street Journal did a story today that was almost as disgraceful as the failing New York Times story, yesterday. And it talked about -- these are front page.
So director of national intelligence just put out, acting a statement, any suggestion that the United States intelligence community, this was just given to us, is withholding information and not providing the best possible intelligence to the president and his national security team is not true.
So they took this front page story out of The Wall Street Journal top and they just wrote the story that its not true. And Ill tell you something, Ill be honest, because I sort of enjoy this back and forth that I guess I have all my life but Ive never seen more dishonest media than frankly, the political media. I thought the financial media was much better, much more honest.
But I will say that, I never get phone calls from the media. How did they write a story like that in The Wall Street Journal without asking me or how did they write a story in The New York Times, put it on front page?
That was like the story they wrote about the women and me, front page, big massive story. And it was nasty and then they called, they said we never said that, we like Mr. Trump. They called up my office, we like Mr. Trump, we never said that.
And it was totally -- they totally misrepresented those very wonderful women, I have to tell you, totally misrepresented. I said give us the retraction. They never gave us a retraction and frankly, I then went on to other things.
OK, go ahead.
Yeah.
...Im skipping that information, I dont know, I was just given we had a very, very big margin.
Well, I dont know, I was given that information. I was given -- I actually, Ive seen that information around. But it was a very substantial victory, do you agree with that? OK thank you, thats...
Go ahead Sir, yes?
We are.
Well, first of all about that, we now have Dan Coats, hopefully soon, Mike Pompeo and James Comey and theyre in position so I hope that well be able to straighten that out without using anybody else.
The gentleman you mentioned is a very talented man, very successful man and hes offered his services and you know, its something we may take advantage of. But I dont think were need that at all because of the fact that you know, I think that we are gonna be able to straighten it out very easily on its own.
As far as the generals concerned, when I first heard about it, I said huh, that doesnt sound wrong. My counsel came, Don McGahn, White House Counsel, and he told me and I asked him, he can speak very well for himself. He said he doesnt think anything is wrong, you know, really didnt think.
It was really, what happened after that but he didnt think anything was done wrong. I didnt either because I waited a period of time and I started to think about it, I said "well I dont see" -- to me, he was doing the job.
The information was provided by -- who I dont know, Sally Yates. And I was a little surprised because I said "doesnt sound like he did anything wrong there." But he did something wrong with respect to the vice president and I thought that was not acceptable. As far as -- as far as the actual making the call, fact Ive watched various programs and Ive read various articles where he was just doing his job.
That was very normal. You know, first everybody got excited because they thought he did something wrong. After they thought about it, it turned out he was just doing his job. So -- and I do. And by the way, with all of that being said, I do think hes a fine man.
...Go ahead. Finish off then Ill get you.
...Yes, were looking at them very -- very, very serious. Ive gone to all of the folks in charge of the various agencies and were -- Ive actually called the Justice Department to look into the leaks. Those are criminal leaks. Theyre put out by people either in agencies -- I think youll see it stopping because now we have our people in. You know, again, we dont have our people in because we cant get them approved by the Senate.
We just had Jeff Sessions approved. Injustice, as an example. So, we are looking into that very seriously. Its a criminal act. You know what I say, when I -- when I was called out on Mexico, I was shocked because all this equipment, all this incredible phone equipment -- when I was called out on Mexico, I was -- honestly, I was really, really surprised.
But I said "you know, it doesnt make sense. That wont happen" but that wasnt that important a call, it was fine, I could show it to the world and he could show it to the world, the president whos a very fine man, by the way. Same thing with Australia. I said "thats terrible that it was leaked" but it wasnt that important. But then I said to myself "what happens when Im dealing with the problem of North Korea?"
What happens when Im dealing with the problems in the Middle East? Are you folks going to be reporting all of that very, very confidential information, very important, very -- you know, I mean at the highest level? Are you going to be reporting about that too? So, I dont want classified information getting out to the public and in a way that was almost a test.
So Im dealing with Mexico, Im dealing with Argentina, we were dealing on this case with Mike Flynn. All this information gets put into the "Washington Post" and gets put into the "New York Times" and Im saying "whats going to happen when Im dealing on the Middle East? Whats going to happen when Im dealing with really, really important subjects like North Korea?
We got to stop it. Thats why its a criminal penalty.
Well the leaks are real. Youre the one that wrote about them and reported them, I mean the leaks are real. You know what they said, you saw it and the leaks are absolutely real. The news is fake because so much of the news is fake. So one thing that I felt it was very important to do -- and I hope we can correct it. Because theres nobody I have more respect for -- well, maybe a little bit but the reporters, good reporters.
Its very important to me and especially in this position. Its very important. I dont mind bad stories. I can handle a bad story better than anybody as long as its true and, you know, over a course of time, Ill make mistakes and youll write badly and Im OK with that. But Im not OK when it is fake. I mean, I watch CNN, its so much anger and hatred and just the hatred.
I dont watch it any more because its very good -- hes saying no. Its OK, Jim. Its OK, Jim, youll have your chance. But I watch others too. Youre not the only one so dont feel badly. But I think it should be straight. I think it should be -- I think it would be frankly more interesting. I know how good everybodys ratings are right now but I think that actually -- I think thatd actually be better.
People -- I mean, you have a lower approval rate than Congress. I think thats right. I dont know, Peter, is that one right? Because you know I think they have lower -- I heard lower than Congress. But honestly, the public would appreciate it, Id appreciate it -- again, I dont mind bad stories when its true but we have an administration where the Democrats are making it very difficult.
I think were setting a record or close to a record in the time of approval of a cabinet. I mean, the numbers are crazy. When Im looking, some of them had them approved immediately.
Im going forever and I still have a lot of people that were waiting for. And thats all theyre doing, is delaying. And you look at Schumer and the mess that hes got over there and they have nothing going. The only thing they can do is delay. And, you know, I think that theyd be better served by, you know, approving and making sure that theyre happy and everybodys good.
And sometimes -- I mean, I know President Obama lost three or four, and you lose them on the way, and thats OK. Thats fine. But I think it would -- I think they would be much better served, John, if they just went through the process quickly. This is pure delay tactics.
And they say it, and everybody understands it. Yeah, go ahead, Jimmy.
Well, I had nothing to do with it. I have nothing to do with Russia. I told you, I have no deals there, I have no anything. Now, when WikiLeaks, which I had nothing to do with, comes out and happens to give, theyre not giving classified information. Theyre giving stuff -- what was said at an office about Hillary cheating on the debates.
Which, by the way, nobody mentions. Nobody mentions that Hillary received the questions to the debates. Can you imagine -- seriously -- can you imagine if I received the questions? It would be the electric chair. OK, he should be put in the electric -- you would even call for the reinstitution of the death penalty, OK. Maybe not you John. Yes? Well do you next Jim, I do you next.
Yes, yes, sure
No, I didnt.
No, I didnt.
No, I didnt.
Excuse me.
No, I fired him because of what he said to Mike Pence. Very simple. Mike was doing his job. He was calling countries and his counterparts. So, it certainly would have been OK with me if he did it. I would have directed him to do it if I thought he wasnt doing it.
I didnt direct him, but I would have directed him because thats his job. And it came out that way -- and in all fairness, I watched Dr. Charles Krauthammer the other night say he was doing his job and I agreed with him. And since then, Ive watched many other people say that.
No, I didnt direct him, but I would have directed him if he didnt do it. OK? Jim?
OK.
Ask -- ask Jeff Zucker how he got his job. OK?
Well, thats -- well, you know, we do have other people. You do have other people and your ratings arent as good as some of the other people that are waiting.
OK, go ahead, John.
I was OK with it.
Well, she was actually missing 33 and then that got extended with a pile after that.
No -- no, but I did say 30. But it was actually higher than that.
OK, fair question. Ready?
No -- no, but let me do one at a time.
Do you mind?
All right. So, in one case, youre talking about highly classified information. In the other case, youre talking about John Podesta saying bad things about the boss. I will say this, if John Podesta said that about me and he was working for me, I would have fired him so fast your head would have spun.
He said terrible things about her. But it wasnt classified information. But in one case, youre talking about classified -- regardless, if you look at the RNC, we had a very strong -- at my suggestion -- and I give Reince great credit for this -- at my suggestion, because I know something about this world, I said I want a very strong defensive mechanism.
I dont want to be hacked. And we did that. And you have seen that they tried to hack us and they failed. The DNC did not do that. And if they did it, they could not have been hacked. But they were hacked and terrible things came in. And, you know, the only thing that I do think is unfair is some of the things were so -- they were -- when I heard some of those things I picked up the papers the next morning and said, oh, this is going to be front page, it wasnt even in the papers.
Again, if I had that happen to me, it would be the biggest story in the history of publishing or the head of newspapers. I would have been headline in every newspaper. I mean, think of it. They gave her the questions to a debate and she -- and she should have reported herself.
Why did Hillary Clinton announce that, "Im sorry, but I have been given the questions to a debate or a town hall, and I feel that its inappropriate, and I want to turn in CNN for not doing a good job."
The reporting is fake. Look, look...
You know what it is? Heres the thing. The public isnt -- you know, they read newspapers, they see television, they watch. They dont know if its true or false because theyre not involved. Im involved. Ive been involved with this stuff all my life. But Im involved. So I know when youre telling the truth or when youre not. I just see many, many untruthful things.
And Ill tell you what else I see. I see tone. You know the word "tone." The tone is such hatred. Im really not a bad person, by the way. No, but the tone is such -- I do get good ratings, you have to admit that -- the tone is such hatred.
I watched this morning a couple of the networks. And I have to say, Fox & Friends in the morning, theyre very honorable people. Theyre very -- not because theyre good, because they hit me also when I do something wrong. But they have the most honest morning show. Thats all I can say. Its the most honest.
But the tone, Jim. If you look -- the hatred. The, I mean, sometimes -- sometimes somebody gets...
Well, you look at your show that goes on at 10 oclock in the evening. You just take a look at that show. That is a constant hit. The panel is almost always exclusive anti-Trump. The good news is he doesnt have good ratings. But the panel is almost exclusive anti-Trump. And the hatred and venom coming from his mouth; the hatred coming from other people on your network.
Now, I will say this. I watch it. I see it. Im amazed by it. And I just think youd be a lot better off, I honestly do. The public gets it, you know. Look, when I go to rallies, they turn around, they start screaming at CNN. They want to throw their placards at CNN. You know.
I -- I think you would do much better by being different. But you just take a look. Take a look at some of your shows in the morning and the evening. If a guest comes out and says something positive about me, its -- its brutal.
Now, theyll take this news conference -- Im actually having a very good time, OK? But theyll take this news conference -- dont forget, thats the way I won. Remember, I used to give you a news conference every time I made a speech, which was like every day. OK?
No, thats how I won. I won with news conferences and probably speeches. I certainly didnt win by people listening to you people. Thats for sure. But Im having a good time.
Tomorrow, they will say, "Donald Trump rants and raves at the press." Im not ranting and raving. Im just telling you. You know, youre dishonest people. But -- but Im not ranting and raving. I love this. Im having a good time doing it.
But tomorrow, the headlines are going to be, "Donald Trump rants and raves." Im not ranting and raving.
Go ahead.
Should I let him have a little bit more? What do you think, Peter? Peter, should I have -- let him have a little bit more?
Sit down. Sit down. Well...
Im changing it from fake news, though.
Very fake news.
Go ahead.
And youre not related to our new...
I looked -- you know, I looked at that name. I said, wait a minute, is there any relation there? Alex Acosta.
OK. Now I checked it -- I said -- they said, "No, sir." I said, "Do me a favor, go back and check the family tree."
I do that.
No, no. I do that. Heres the thing. OK. I understand what youre -- and youre right about that, except this. See, I know when I should get good and when I should get bad. And sometimes Ill say, "Wow, thats going to be a great story." And Ill get killed.
I know whats good and bad. Id be a pretty good reporter, not as good as you. But I know whats good. I know whats bad. And when they change it and make it really bad, something that should be positive -- sometimes something that should be very positive, theyll make OK. Theyll even make it negative.
So I understand it. So, because Im there. I know what was said. I know whos saying it. Im there. So its very important to me.
Look, I want to see an honest press. When I started off today by saying that its so important to the public to get an honest press. The press -- the public doesnt believe you people anymore. Now, maybe I had something to do with that. I dont know. But they dont believe you. If you were straight and really told it like it is, as Howard Cosell used to say, right?
Of course, he had some questions also. But if you were straight, I would be your biggest booster. I would be your biggest fan in the world, including bad stories about me. But if you go -- as an example, youre CNN, I mean its story after story after story is bad. I won. I won. And the other thing, chaos because zero chaos. We are running -- this is a fine-tuned machine and Reince happens to be doing a good job but half of his job is putting out lies by the press.
You know, I said to him yesterday this whole Russia scam that you guys are building so that you dont talk about the real subject which is illegal leaks, but I watched him yesterday working so hard to try and get that story proper. And Im saying "heres my chief of staff," a really good guy, did a phenomenal job at RNC. I mean, he won the election, right?
We won the presidency. We got some senators, we got some -- all over the country, you take a look, hes done a great job. And I said to myself, you know -- and I said to somebody that was in the room, I said "you take a look at Reince, hes working so hard just putting out fires that are fake fires." I mean, theyre fake. Theyre not true. And isnt that a shame because hed rather be working on healthcare, hed rather be working on tax reform, Jim.
I mean that. I would be your biggest fan in the world if you treated me right. I sort of understand theres a certain bias maybe by Jeff or somebody, you know -- you know, whatever reason. But -- and I understand that. But youve got to be at least a little bit fair and thats why the public sees it. They see it. They see its not fair. You take a look at some of your shows and you see the bias and the hatred.
And the public is smart, they understand it. Go ahead.
...I think they dont believe it. I dont think the public -- thats why the Rasmussen poll just has me through the roof. I dont think they believe it. Well, I guess one of the reasons Im here today is to tell you the whole Russian thing, thats a ruse. Thats a ruse. And by the way, it would be great if we could get along with Russia, just so you understand that.
Now tomorrow, youll say "Donald Trump wants to get along with Russia, this is terrible." Its not terrible. Its good. We had Hillary Clinton try and do a reset. We had Hillary Clinton give Russia 20 percent of the uranium in our country. You know what uranium is, right? This thing called nuclear weapons like lots of things are done with uranium including some bad things.
Nobody talks about that. I didnt do anything for Russia. Ive done nothing for Russia. Hillary Clinton gave them 20 percent of our uranium. Hillary Clinton did a reset, remember? With the stupid plastic button that made us all look like a bunch of jerks. Here, take a look. He looked at her like, what the hell is she doing with that cheap plastic button?
Hillary Clinton -- that was the reset, remember it said reset? Now if I do that, oh, Im a bad guy. If we could get along with Russia, thats a positive thing. We have a very talented man, Rex Tillerson, whos going to be meeting with them shortly and I told him. I said "I know politically its probably not good for me." The greatest thing I could do is shoot that ship thats 30 miles off shore right out of the water.
Everyone in this countrys going to say "oh, its so great." Thats not great. Thats not great. I would love to be able to get along with Russia. Now, youve had a lot of presidents that havent taken that tack. Look where we are now. Look where we are now. So, if I can -- now, I love to negotiate things, I do it really well, and all that stuff. But -- but its possible I wont be able to get along with Putin.
Maybe it is. But I want to just tell you, the false reporting by the media, by you people, the false, horrible, fake reporting makes it much harder to make a deal with Russia. And probably Putin said "you know." Hes sitting behind his desk and hes saying "you know, I see whats going on in the United States, I follow it closely. Its going to be impossible for President Trump to ever get along with Russia because of all the pressure hes got with this fake story." OK?
And thats a shame because if we could get along with Russia -- and by the way, China and Japan and everyone. If we could get along, it would be a positive thing, not a negative thing.
Tax reform is going to happen fairly quickly. Were doing Obamacare. Were in final stages. We should be submitting the initial plan in March, early March, I would say. And we have to, as you know, statutorily and for reasons of budget, we have to go first. Its not like, frankly, the tax would be easier, in my opinion, but for statutory reasons and for budgetary reasons, we have to submit the healthcare sooner.
So well be submitting healthcare sometime in early March, mid-March. And after that, were going to come up, and were doing very well on tax reform. Yes?
OK.
Not good.
Not good.
Excuse me, excuse me. When did it happen? It happened when, if you were Putin right now, you would say, "Hey, were back to the old games with the United States; theres no way Trump can ever do a deal with us." Because the -- you have to understand. If I was just brutal on Russia right now, just brutal, people would say, you would say, "Oh, isnt that wonderful." But I know you well enough.
Then you would say, "Oh, he was too tough; he shouldnt have done that." Look, all of the...
Wait a minute. Wait, wait. Excuse me just one second.
All of those things that you mentioned are very recent, because probably Putin assumes that hes not going to be able to make a deal with me because its politically not popular for me to make a deal. So Hillary Clinton tries a re-set. It failed. They all tried. But Im different than those people. Go ahead.
I have. I have. And Im so beautifully represented. Im so honored that the Senate approved him. Hes going to be fantastic.
Yes, I think that Ive already...
No, I dont think so. I think Putin probably assumes that he cant make a deal with me anymore because politically it would be unpopular for a politician to make a deal. I cant believe Im saying Im a politician, but I guess thats what I am now.
Because, look, it would be much easier for me to be tough on Russia, but then were not going to make a deal.
Now, I dont know that were going to make a deal. I dont know. We might. We might not. But it would be much easier for me to be so tough -- the tougher I am on Russia, the better. But you know what? I want to do the right thing for the American people. And to be honest, secondarily, I want to do the right thing for the world.
If Russia and the United States actually got together and got along -- and dont forget, were a very powerful nuclear country and so are they. Theres no up-side. Were a very powerful nuclear country and so are they. I have been briefed. And I can tell you one thing about a briefing that were allowed to say because anybody that ever read the most basic book can say it, nuclear holocaust would be like no other.
Theyre a very powerful nuclear country and so are we. If we have a good relationship with Russia, believe me, thats a good thing, not a bad thing.
Who did I say is not good?
No, its not good, but they happened.
They all happened recently.
No...
They all happened recently. And I understand what theyre doing because theyre doing the same thing.
Now, again, maybe Im not going to be able to do a deal with Russia, but at least I will have tried. And if I dont, does anybody really think that Hillary Clinton would be tougher on Russia than Donald Trump? Does anybody in this room really believe that? OK?
But I tell you one thing, she tried to make a deal. She had the re-set. She gave all that valuable uranium away. She did other things. You know, they say Im close to Russia. Hillary Clinton gave away 20 percent of the uranium in the United States. Shes close to Russia.
I gave -- you know what I gave to Russia? You know what I gave? Nothing.
Im not going to tell you anything about what response I do. I dont talk about military response. I dont say Im going into Mosul in four months. "We are going to attack Mosul in four months." Then three months later, "We are going to attack Mosul in one month." "Next week, we are going to attack Mosul."
In the meantime, Mosul is very, very difficult. Do you know why? Because I dont talk about military, and I dont talk about certain other things, youre going to be surprised to hear that. And by the way, my whole campaign, Id say that. So I dont have to tell you. I dont want to be one of these guys that say, "Yes, heres what were going to do." I dont have to do that. I dont have to tell you what Im going to do in North Korea.
Wait a minute. I dont have to tell you what Im going to do in North Korea. And I dont have to tell you what Im going to do with Iran. You know why? Because they shouldnt know. And eventually, you guys are going to get tired of asking that question.
So when you ask me what am I going to do with a ship, the Russian ship as an example, Im not going to tell you. But hopefully, I wont have to do anything, but Im not going to tell you. OK.
Where are you from?
Heres another beauty.
Yeah. Sure.
Just like CNN right?
Yeah, I do. I do. Let me tell you about this government...
Wait. Wait. I know who you are. Just wait.
Let me tell you about the travel ban. We had a very smooth rollout of the travel ban. But we had a bad court. Got a bad decision. We had a court thats been overturned. Again, may be wrong. But I think its 80 percent of the time, a lot.
We had a bad decision. Were going to keep going with that decision. Were going to put in a new executive order next week some time. But we had a bad decision.
Thats the other thing that was wrong with the travel ban. You had Delta with a massive problem with their computer system at the airports. You had some people that were put out there, brought by very nice busses, and they were put out at various locations.
Despite that the only problem that we had is we had a bad court. We had a court that gave us what I consider to be, with great respect, a very bad decision. Very bad for the safety and security of our country. The rollout was perfect.
Now, what I wanted to do was do the exact same executive order, but said one thing. I said this to my people. Give them a one-month period of time. But General Kelly, now Secretary Kelly, said, if you do that, all these people will come in, in the month -- the bad ones.
You do agree there are bad people out there, right? That not everybody thats like you. You have some bad people out there.
Kelly said you cant do that. And he was right. As soon as he said it I said wow, never thought of it. I said how about one week? He said no good. You got to do it immediately because if you do it immediately they dont have time to come in.
Now nobody ever reports that. But thats why we did it quickly.
Now, if I wouldve done it a month, everything wouldve been perfect. The problem is we wouldve wasted a lot of time, and maybe a lot of lives because a lot of bad people wouldve come into our country.
Now in the meantime, were vetting very, very strongly. Very, very strongly. But we need help. And we need help by getting that executive order passed.
Yes? Go ahead.
Well I told you, Gen. Flynn obviously was dealing. So thats one person. But he was dealing, as he should have been.
No. Nobody that I know of. Nobody...
Look, look, look...
How many times do I have to answer this question?
Russia is a ruse.
I know you have to get up and ask a question. Its so important.
Russia is a ruse. I have nothing to do with Russia. Havent made a phone call to Russia in years. Dont speak to people from Russia. Not that I wouldnt. I just have nobody to speak to.
I spoke to Putin twice. He called me on the election. I told you this. And he called me on the inauguration, a few days ago.
We had a very good talk, especially the second one, lasted for a pretty long period of time. Im sure you probably get it because it was classified. So Im sure everybody in this room perhaps has it. But we had a very, very good talk.
I have nothing to do with Russia. To the best of my knowledge no person that I deal with does.
Now, Manafort has totally denied it. He denied it. Now people knew that he was a consultant over in that part of the world for a while, but not for Russia. I think he represented Ukraine or people having to do with Ukraine, or people that -- whoever. But people knew that. Everybody knew that.
You know what? He said no. I could only tell you what he -- now he was replaced long before the election. You know that, right?
He was replaced long before the election. When all of this stuff started coming out, it came out during the election. But Paul Manafort, whos a good man also by the way, Paul Manfort was replaced long before the election took place. He was only there for a short period of time.
How much longer should we stay here, folks?
Five more minutes. Is that OK? Five?
Wait. Lets see. Whos -- I want to find a friendly reporter.
Are you a friendly reporter? Watch how friendly he is. Wait. Wait. Watch how friendly he is. Go ahead.
Now, Manafort has totally denied it. He denied it. Now people knew that he was a consultant over in that part of the world for a while, but not for Russia. I think he represented Ukraine or people having to do with Ukraine, or people that -- whoever. But people knew that. Everybody knew that.
You know what? He said no. I could only tell you what he -- now he was replaced long before the election. You know that, right?
He was replaced long before the election. When all of this stuff started coming out, it came out during the election. But Paul Manafort, whos a good man also by the way, Paul Manfort was replaced long before the election took place. He was only there for a short period of time.
How much longer should we stay here, folks?
Five more minutes. Is that OK? Five?
Wait. Lets see. Whos -- I want to find a friendly reporter.
Are you a friendly reporter? Watch how friendly he is. Wait. Wait. Watch how friendly he is. Go ahead.
You see, he said he was going to ask a very simple, easy question. And its not. Its not a simple question, not a fair question. Okay, sit down, I understand the rest of your question. So heres the story, folks. Number one, I am the least anti-Semitic person that youve ever seen in your entire life. Number two, racism. The least racist person.
In fact, we did relatively well, relative to other people running as a Republicanquiet, quiet, quiet. See, he lied abouthe was going to get up and ask a very straight, simple question. So, welcome to the world of the media.
But let me just tell you something, that I hate the charge. I find it repulsive. I hate even the question because people that know meand you heard the prime minister, you heard Betanyahu  yesterdaydid you hear him?Bibi--he said, "Ive known Donald Trump for a long time," and then he said, "Forget it." So you should take that, instead of having to get up and ask a very insulting question like that. Just shows you about the press but thats the way the press is.
Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead.
See, it just shows you about the press, but thats the way the press is.
Yeah.
Its a very fair question.
Right.
Were gonna show great heart, DACA is a very, very difficult subject for me, I will tell you. To me, its one of the most difficult subjects I have because you have these incredible kids.
In many cases, not in all cases. And some of the cases, having DACA and theyre gang members and theyre drug dealers, too. But you have some absolutely, incredible kids, I would say mostly. They were brought here in such a way -- its a very -- its a very, very tough subject.
Were gonna deal with DACA with heart. I have to deal with a lot of politicians, dont forget and I have to convince them that what Im saying is -- is right. And I appreciate your understanding on that.
But the DACA situation is a very, very -- its a very difficult thing for me because you know, I love these kids, I love kids, I have kids and grandkids. And I find it very, very hard doing what the law says exactly to do and you know, the law is rough.
Im not talking about new laws, Im talking the existing law, is very rough, its very, very rough. As far as the new order, the new order is going to be very much tailored to the what I consider to be a very bad decision.
But we can tailor the order to that decision and get just about everything, in some ways, more. But were tailoring it now to the decision, we have some of the best lawyers in the country working on it.
And the new executive order, is being tailored to the decision we got down from the court. OK?
Yes.
Now, thats what I call a nice question. That is very -- who are you with?
Good, Im gonna start watching, all right? Thank you very much. Melanias terrific, she was here last night, we had dinner with Senator Rubio and his wife who is by the way, lovely.
And we had a really good discussion about Cuba because we have very similar views on Cuba. And Cuba was very good to me in the Florida election, as you know the Cuban Americans. And I think that Melanias gonna be outstanding, thats right, she just opened up the visitors center, in other words, touring of the White House.
She, like others that shes working with, feel very, very strongly about womens issue, womens difficulties. Very, very strongly, shes a very, very strong advocate. I think shes a great representative for this country.
And a funny thing happens, because she gets -- she gets so unfairly -- Melania, the things they say. Ive known her for a long time, she was a very successful person, she was a very successful model. She did really well.
She would go home at night and didnt even want to go out with people. She was a very private person. She was always the highest quality that youll ever find. And the things they say -- Ive known her for a long time -- the things they say are so unfair. And actually, shes been apologized to, as you know, by various media because they said things that were lies.
Ill just tell you this. I think shes going to be a fantastic first lady. Shes going to be a tremendous representative of women and of the people. And helping her and working her will be Ivanka, who is a fabulous person and a fabulous, fabulous woman. And theyre not doing this for money.
Theyre not doing this for pay, theyre doing this because they feel it; both of them. And Melania goes back and forth and after Barron finishes school -- because its hard to take a child out of school with a few months left -- she and Barron will be moving over to the White House. OK, thank you, thats a very nice question.
Go ahead.
Yes, oh, this is going to be a bad question, but thats OK.
Good, because I enjoy watching you on television. Go ahead.
Fix the inner cities.
Yep.
That was very professional and very good.
Well be announcing the order in a little while and Id rather let the order speak for itself. But it could be something that I think that will be very good for everybody concerned. But well talk to you about that after we do the announcement. As far as the inner cities, as you know, I was very strong on the inner cities during the campaign.
I think its probably what got me a much higher percentage of the African American vote than a lot of people thought I was going to get. We did, you know, much higher than people thought I was going to get. And I was honored by that, including the Hispanic vote, which was also much higher.
And by the way, if I might add, including the womens vote, which was much higher than people thought I was going to get. So, we are going to be working very hard on the inner cities, having to do with education, having to do with crime. Were going to try and fix as quickly as possible -- you know, it takes a long time.
Its taken more a hundred years and more for some of these places to evolve and they evolved, many of them, very badly. But were going to be working very hard on health and healthcare, very, very hard on education, and also were going to be working in a stringent way, in a very good way, on crime.
You go to some of these inner city places and its so sad when you look at the crime. You have people -- and Ive seen this, and Ive sort of witnessed it -- in fact, in two cases I have actually witnessed it. They lock themselves into apartments, petrified to even leave, in the middle of the day.
Theyre living in hell. We cant let that happen. So, were going to be very, very strong. Thats a great question and -- and its a -- its a very difficult situation because its been many, many years. Its been festering for many, many years. But we have places in this country that we have to fix.
We have to help African American people that, for the most part, are stuck there. Hispanic American people. We have Hispanic American people that are in the inner cities and their living in hell. I mean, you look at the numbers in Chicago. There are two Chicagos, as you know.
Theres one Chicago thats incredible, luxurious and all -- and safe. Theres another Chicago thats worse than almost any of the places in the Middle East that we talk, and that you talk about, every night on the newscasts. So, were going to do a lot of work on the inner cities.
I have great people lined up to help with the inner cities. OK?
Am I going to include who?
Well, I would. I tell you what, do you want to set up the meeting?
Do you want to set up the meeting?
Are they friends of yours?
Well, then set up the meeting.
Lets go set up a meeting. I would love to meet with the Black Caucus. I think its great, the Congressional Black Caucus. I think its great. I actually thought I had a meeting with Congressman Cummings and he was all excited. And then he said, well, I cant move, it might be bad for me politically. I cant have that meeting.
I was all set to have the meeting. You know, we called him and called him. And he was all set. I spoke to him on the phone, very nice guy.
He wanted it, but we called, called, called and cant make a meeting with him. Every day I walk and say I would like to meet with him because I do want to solve the problem. But he probably was told by Schumer or somebody like that, some other lightweight. He was probably told - he was probably told "dont meet with Trump. Its bad politics."
And thats part of the problem in this country. OK, one more.
No, no, one question. Two we cant handle. This room cant handle two. Go ahead, give me the better of your two.
...And some of it - can I be honest with you? And this has to do with racism and horrible things that are put up. Some of it written by our opponents. You do know that. Do you understand that? You dont think anybody would do a thing like that. Some of the signs youll see are not put up by the people that love or like Donald Trump, theyre put up by the other side and you think its like playing it straight?
No. But you have some of those signs and some of that anger is caused by the other side. Theyll do signs and theyll do drawings that are inappropriate. It wont be my people. It will be the people on the other side to anger people like you. OK.
Go ahead, go ahead.
Who is that? Where is that?
Oh, Im working on it. Im working on it very - no, no, look. Hey, just so you understand, we had a totally divided country for eight years and long before that. In all fairness to President Obama, long before President Obama we have had a very divided - I didnt come along and divide this country. This country was seriously divided before I got here.
Were going to work on it very hard. One of the questions I was asked, I thought it was a very good question was about the inner cities. I mean, thats part of it. But were going to work on education, were going to work on - you know, were going to stop - were going to try and stop the crime. We have great law enforcement officials, were going to try and stop crime.
Were not going to try and stop, were going to stop crime. But its very important to me - but this isnt Donald Trump that divided a nation. We went eight years with President Obama and we went many years before President Obama. We lived in a divided nation. And I am going to try - I will do everything within my power to fix that. I want to thank everybody very much.
