Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Pensacola, FL|November 2, 2016
Were having a lot of fun. A lot of very, very big poll numbers coming down over the last few days. Youve seen it. Big.
In six days, were going to win the great state of Florida and we are going to win the White House. Were going to win it.
Its feeling like it already, isnt it? Weve got to be nice and cool. Nice and cool.
Right? Stay on point, Donald. Stay on point.
No sidetracks, Donald, nice and easy, nice. Because Ive been watching Hillary the last few days, shes totally unhinged. We dont want any of that.
She has become unhinged.
Youve got to make sure to vote and to vote early if you can on November 8th. And I think -- who has voted already?
Whoa! Well, anybody that wants to leave right now to vote is OK. Im only kidding. Youll vote tomorrow.
The new L.A. Times poll, highly respected, has us up six points nationwide. And I have some more really interesting and great breaking news to share with everyone here today.
No, its not that.
But that will be that. Its just been announced that in the month of October weve raised over $100 million in small donations. I dont think thats ever been done. Has that ever been done before?
That sounds more like a Democrat thing, not a Republican thing, right? Thats a great honor. That means there are a lot of people out there that want us to really get this done. And Ive contributed a tremendous amount of money, but when we have those small dollars, $61 and $52 and $17, when that money comes in and then we raise around $100 million thats a tremendous compliment to everybody here. It really is. It really is.
These are donations from everyday patriotic Americans who love their country and want a better future for their children, who are going to have it.
Our movement is about borders and is about bringing back our jobs. You know about that from this area.
Its about reducing taxes and raising incomes. Our movements about defeating ISIS. We have no choice. We have no choice.
We want to rebuild our country. But theyre chopping off heads, theyre drowning people in steel cages. We have no choice.
And keeping our country safe from radical Islamic terrorism.
Its a movement about restoring respect for America and for the American flag.
Were disrespected right now all over the world. But that will change very, very quickly. It really will. It really will. Well get along with a lot of countries that right now we do not get along with and that frankly take advantage of us. From now on, it will be America first, folks. America first.
Finally, its a movement about taking our government back.
USA! USA! USA!
Thank you. Thank you.
Theres an amazing love for our country. I see it all over this great land.
We love you!
Thank you. I love you, too. Thank you.
Its a movement about taking our government back from the donors, the lobbyists and the special interests and giving that power back to the people.
And in case you didnt know, Ive been on the other side for a long time. And I saw where the country was going. It was headed in the wrong direction. And I love this country and I just said were going to have to do it. Its not easy. Its not easy. I have to put up with some of the most dishonest people in the world, the media.
They never show crowds like that. Look at that, it goes all the way back. They never show crowds. They dont show crowds.
But I guarantee you one thing, folks. I guarantee you one thing. If we had a small crowd, if for some reason a little small group of people showed up, it would be the biggest story out there. That I can tell you.
These are really dishonest people. And they are not happy with whats going -- this was not in their game plan, folks. They are not happy.
Dishonest media, among the most dishonest people.
And I was sad to see The New York Times lost 97 percent, down profits 97 percent.
Ninety-seven percent down and then they tell you who they want for president, right? We know better.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare." ""eal change begins with"
Its just been announced that the residents of Florida, hate to tell you this, are going to experience massive, double-digit premium hikes. I know what those hikes are.
Should I tell you? Lets keep it -- I want you to leave happy tonight knowing that were going to make America great again, OK?
And in the very near future, its going to be gone, Obamacare
All of the counties in the Florida Panhandle will have only one single Obamacare" insurer to choose from next year. Good luck with that negotiation. Not so lucky. Dont worry
But think of it. Now, do you know how much theyre going to make? This is what they dream of. They all wanted to be on, theyre all gone, theyre all gone, youre going to have one to deal with. Its a disaster.
In Minnesota where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor has said, and hes gotten a lot of heat for saying this, the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. That was last week.
Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting and deductibles are going through the roof. Other than that, its actually quite good.
What a shame. And I said it from the -- Ive said a lot of things from the beginning, you have to say. You know, they said about Hillary shes got bad instincts, right? You know who said that? Podesta. I would fire Podesta so fast. I mean, the way he talks about her, you know, whether true, not true, who cares? He speaks so badly about her. Of course, he didnt know that there was a thing called WikiLeaks, right? He didnt know about that.
But he said shes got bad instincts and she does have bad, very bad instincts. And Bernie Sanders, what did he say? Got bad judgment, shes got bad judgment. Shes got bad instincts, shes got bad judgment. Thats not going to be your president.
If we dont get rid of Obamacare
Im asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare" and save health care for every family in Florida and the United States. ""m asking for your vote so we can replace "Obamacare" and save health care for every family i""m asking for your vote so we can replace "Obamacar"" asking "
Real change also means restoring honesty to government. Do you think Hillarys going to restore honesty to government? I dont know.
I dont think so, folks. As you know, the FBI has reopened its criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
All right. Is your sound turned back up?
You know what they do, they turn the sound down when youre doing that. Are you guys back? Did you put your sound back up?
Hillary wants to blame everyone else for her mounting legal troubles, but she has no one to blame but herself. Hillary is the one who set up an illegal private e-mail server to shield her criminal activity. Hillary is the one who endangered national security for you, your family by sending classified information on an insecure server. Hillary is the one who lied so many times to Congress and to the FBI. Hillary is the one who made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer, and who destroyed 33,000 e-mails after receiving a congressional subpoena. Thats after, after. Unbelievable.
But I have a feeling those 650,000 -- 650,000 e-mails -- I have a feeling those e-mails are going to be -- whoa, there are going to be some beauties in there. Can you imagine? Shes been deleting all the time, deleting, and then they say, yeah, we have a problem. What? They just found 650,000 e-mails. Now, you cant have 650,000 for the wedding and for the yoga, right? You cant, its too many.
No, thats a big number. You know, when you hear that many e- mails, then you wonder why she never gets anything done. I guess thats part of the reason.
Hillary is the one who accepted debate questions given to her by Donna Brazile...
... in advance of a debate, and now its turned out to be two debates with Bernie Sanders. Can you imagine Bernie Sanders? If that happened to me, it probably did, although we won the debates anyway. I dont think it matters. I dont think it matters.
But can you imagine that Bernie Sanders keeps supporting her? I think eventually hes going to say I cant do it. I mean, honestly, if somebody got the debate questions on me and I found out about it, and they only found out about it through this whole deal with WikiLeaks, but if somebody found out that for me, I would never want to be speaking with that person again. I would imagine its only a question of time, hopefully before the election, that Bernie Sanders says thats one of the most dishonest acts because Hillary never reported it as a breach.
She got the questions and she never reported it. And they dont say that, these people. All they do is talk about Donna Brazile. Who cares about Donna Brazile? Who cares about her? Its not Donna Brazile. She was dishonest.
By the way, did you see her on television the other night trying to answer that one? That was called choking. Let me out of the studio, please.
Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, what a country. But were going to make it respected again, were going to make it great again, Im telling you.
But hopefully at some point, Bernie Sanders will do the right thing. And some of his people have told me, how can he continue to support her when she cheated -- when she cheated -- on the debates. Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency. And if she were elected, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis. You know whats going to happen.
And in all fairness, we went through it with the husband, he was impeached. His law license was taken. You know, he cant represent you. If you want a lawyer, you cant even use him, his license was taken away.
Folks, do we want to go through this again?
No!
And do we want for more years of Obama? Thats what its going to be.
No!
You know what that means? ISIS running around all over the place, higher taxes, no borders, a depleted military. No, were going to change it around.
Hillary is likely to be under investigation for many years, probably concluding in criminal trials.
And through WikiLeaks today, its just been shown that this is, as Ive been saying, a rigged system with more collusion, possibly illegal, between the Justice Department, the Clinton campaign and the State Department. Right? You saw that, just came out.
The e-mails show that the assistant attorney general, who is involved in the investigation, has been feeding information directly to John Podesta, who he knows very well, and the Clinton campaign. Folks, folks, its a rigged system, OK? Its a rigged system.
Then they say, oh, isnt that terrible when Donald Trump, you know, like -- its a rigged system. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption.
It includes a ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections. I think we can keep them out. We have enough problems with our elections, lets keep them out.
My plan also includes a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.
I want the entire corruption Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we all have to say -- we all. And by the way, folks, Im a messenger, Im just a messenger. This is a movement like theyve never seen. By the way, I have been an effective messenger, in all fairness, but that also.
But Im a messenger, Im a messenger.
When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.
Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp!
Believe me. I told people, you know, over the last week- and-a-half ago that came out. I said I cant say that, that is so hokey.
I said Im not going to say it. Anyway, so a week-and-a-half ago I said it. The place went crazy. I said, whoa. Then I said it at the next meeting, we had a tremendous rally someplace, and I said it. And the place went totally crazy.
And then I said it again, same thing, and then I said to myself, boy, Im glad I thought of that expression, thats a great expression.  I tell this story. Frank Sinatra, Frank Sinatra didnt like My Way." He didnt like "My Way
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.
Florida has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton.
Heres a fact thats so hard to even fathom. America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed deal. And I have to say about China, I do a lot of business with China, I do a lot of business with China. We can do great with China. And I dont disrespect them, Im not angry at them because theyve taken advantage of our country, Im angry at our leaders for allowing them to do it.
Our leaders have allowed them to manipulate their currency, devalue their currency. Theyre masters, theyre grand masters. Nobodys ever done it like China. Others do it. Japan does it brilliantly also, but nobodys ever done to us what China has. And we have -- the biggest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in Manhattan, its a China bank. Its the number-one bank in the world. And I do business with China in the Bank of America building in San Francisco through China and so many things. And dealing with China is fine. But you have to have people that are knowing what theyre doing because what China has done to our country, they have taken our money, they have taken our jobs, they make our product and we owe them $1.6 trillion. Thats sort of amazing, right? They take our money and we owe them. So thatll all change.
And you know the amazing thing? Now in the South China Sea theyre building a massive, massive fortress, probably like nobodys ever seen, right in the middle of the sea. And I dont think they asked for environmental impact statements, do you? Do you think they went through the two-year review period?
No!
You know what they went through? About a 15-minute review period. But theyre building right in the middle of the South China Sea. They shouldnt be doing that. And we treat them very well because we let them do all these things that we could stop very easily.
And by the way, we have tremendous power, but we dont know how to use it. So were going to get along better with China. Were going to get along better with Mexico, what Mexico is doing to us, between the border and the kind of trade deficits we have with Mexico. And by the way, so many other countries. Were going to be the smart people again. Were going to be the smart people again.
Were living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, we really are. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving Florida.
The theft of American prosperity will end. Theyre taking away our wealth. A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and we will stand up to product dumping, unfair subsidies and currency manipulation. And well win, well win. It wont even be hard.
We will end the foreign cheating and protect every last American job.
We will also immediately stop the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership that Hillary Clinton would love.
Thatll be the end of your jobs completely. Thats a disaster, certainly the way its structured is a total disaster.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs, were going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.
We will also cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations.
And we will use that money for American, and its so important, for American environmental infrastructure. We want, folks, we want clean air, crystal, we want clean water, crystal. I want crystal- clean water, clean air. We want safety. Beyond that, thats what we want. The rest of the world, they take our money, they laugh at us. Our businesses can no longer compete because some of the restrictions. We want clean air, we want clean water, we want safety. We spend billions and billions of dollars.
And well be replacing, unless you dont want to do it, the 3- Mile Bridge. Do you want to do that? Do you care? Because if you dont care, lets save the money, OK? Should we do it or not? Tell me, should we do it?
Well, youre more excited about building the wall, that I can see.
And we will unleash the power of American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal. Were going to put our miners back to work. And were going to put our steelworkers back to work.
We will become a rich nation again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees...
... and virtually unlimited immigration from the most dangerous places in the world to come into our country. Her plan would mean generations of terrorism, radicalism and extremism spreading in your schools and throughout your communities. When Im elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.
And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country, I can tell you that. Weve got enough problems.
We have enough problems. And you know what? We all have a heart and we see whats going on, the world is unbelievable whats happening. And well build safe havens and well get the money from the Gulf states, they have so much money they dont know what to do with it and they havent exactly been putting up. So well get the money from -- we owe $20 trillion. If you dont mind, Im going to low-key it a little bit, OK? Does that sound OK to everybody?
Yes!
But well get the money to the area. Well get it over there. And well build safe havens.
Trump! Trump! Trump!
I think hes on our side, that guy, right? I always say, friend or foe? Usually its friend, other than the ones that the Clintons hired, the thugs, right, for $1,500 apiece.  $1,500 and a cell phone, go and try and beat up as many people as you can. Remember that, around Chicago? And then theyre blaming me, Donald Trumps rallies are very, very violent. And you hardly heard about that story. And honestly, those people should be prosecuted. You had policemen walking out with gashes in their head. Those people should be prosecuted because we have the friendliest rallies, we have such love at our rallies. Those people should be prosecuted.
Did you see the guy who was in charge of that program? Visited the White House, like, 344 times. Did you see that?
He visited the White House, I think it was 344 times, right? But he said, yeah, but I only saw the president 44 times. Oh, well, thats OK. So Im sure the president didnt know anything about the violence, right? And hes got to stop campaigning for crooked Hillary. Hes got to go back, go to the office and hes got to produce jobs and hes got to help the military build up. I mean, depleted. Hes got to look at the borders. I mean, this guy, all he wants to do is campaign for Hillary, its unbelievable. I think he may be hurting her more.
Look, the bottom line is nobody wants four more years of Obama.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build what? Were going to build the wall.
The wall!
And heres a little quiz. Im sure youre never going to be able to guess this. Who is going to pay for the wall?
Mexico!
How did you guess? They dont know it yet, but theyre paying for the wall.
We received the first-ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers, a tremendous number of people, first time theyve ever done it.
The immigration officers warned that Hillarys plan is the most radical immigration proposal in U.S. history and that it will lead to the loss of thousands and thousands of lives." Thats a quote. As secretary of state
I promise you this, whether its four years or eight years, not once, when we bring criminals back to a country, not once will that country say take them back. Not once, believe me.
Not once.
Hillary wants totally open borders, there goes your country, and has pledged mass amnesty in her first 100 days. Very unfair to all of the people that want to come in. And by the way, I want people to come in. I want tremendous numbers of people to come in. And were going to have that big, beautiful door in the wall. But you know what? They have to come in through a process, they have to come in legally.
They have to come in legally. And well have merit involved, too. Wouldnt it be nice if we went a little bit on the merit system, we take people that are really going to help us grow our country? Wouldnt that be nice?
Somebody said you cant say that, thats not politically correct. Well, I just said it, folks.
Hillary strongly supports sanctuary cities, like San Francisco...
... where incredible Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant who had been deported as least five times. A Trump administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.
We will end illegal immigration, keep the drugs from pouring into our communities and deport all criminal aliens from our country. We will also fully eliminate the Obama-Clinton defense cuts and completely rebuild our badly depleted military, which we desperately need.
That includes brand-new, modern aircraft for Pensacola Naval Air Station. Wouldnt that be nice for your great, young pilots?
I watched a documentary a couple of months ago and I saw that. It was a documentary on how old our aircraft is, our fighter craft. And they cant get parts, they dont make parts anymore. These are fighters that were currently using. These great, great people that fly these planes, they cant get parts because they dont make them anymore. They get the parts from the museums, they get the parts from the airplane graveyards. And I said, this the United States? The enemy has plans that are far better than ours, so were going to change all of that. So get ready, get ready, Pensacola.
And we will always ensure that the Blue Angels -- I love the Blue Angels...
... continue to inspire our nation, the Blue Angels. I mean, those guys are serious fliers. I never quite -- when the wings are that -- I never quite got it, but they have great talent, no different than anything else. Theyre great, theyre blessed with great, great talent.
We will also build the 350-ship Navy that our country has been asking for and our admirals have been asking for.
And well have an active duty Army of 540,000 troops.
Our military policy will be based on three very important words: Peace through strength.
We dont want to use it. We want to have it, we dont want to use it. We do have to get rid of ISIS, folks, but we dont want to use it other than that.
Im honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients, and a lot more coming. A lot more coming.
Our new foreign policy will put America first. Hillary brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria and Libya. She empowered Iran and she unleashed ISIS. You ever notice where she says we will fight ISIS, during the debates? You know, then she walks out, and not good, not good. She left, wasnt good. But shes going to fight ISIS; shes the one that let it start. So ISIS started as nothing, then Obama called it the junior varsity, you remember, and now its in 32 countries. And shes going to stop it? Next, Hillary wants to start a shooting war in the Syrian conflict with a nuclear-armed opponent named Russia, that could seriously lead over Syria to World War III. And Putin does not like her and she is just not respected.
We dont like her either!
That was quite funny. The woman screams, We dont like her either!" ""hat was quite funny. The woman scream"
Who said that? Thats pretty cool. Who said it? You? You look so innocent, I cant believe it. Wow, we dont like her either. No, we need strength.
Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East, wars that we never win, wars that just cause death destruction. We never win. We dont win anymore. We dont win with wars. We dont win with trade. We dont win. Were going to start winning again like you havent won in a long time.
And now the Middle East, after spending this $6 trillion -- $6 trillion, we could have rebuilt our country twice -- and now the Middle East is in worse shape than its ever been before. Its a mess. I mean, its not even, its not even, its far worse than it ever was. Theyve dragged us into these endless foreign wars that have made us much less safe. Theyve left our borders wide open at home and theyve shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.
To all Americans I say its time immediately for new leadership, it is.
And just in closing, think, think were all leaders, were all doing this together.
Trump! Trump! Trump!
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Its a great honor to be with you tonight, I have to tell you. This is a great area. This is an amazing area. Somebody said, oh, thats Trump all the way, that whole area. I love this area. This is an amazing area.
They did a poll of your area and Ill tell you we are through the roof.
In fact, I have to be honest, my geniuses said, Mr. Trump, sir, dont come there, everyones voting for you there. You dont need to go there, youve got their vote. I said thats why I want to go there. Dont you want to reward people for being your friend, right?
Dont go there? I want to go here. Its true. See, people forget, you know, its one of those things. I want to be here. This is -- I think you people are amazing. You built this country, folks. You built this country.
Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. Were going to massively cut taxes for the working and middle-class Americans. Hillary is going to raise your taxes substantially, by the way. Its right there.
We will eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We will cancel illegal and, you know, its crazy, the illegal Obama executive orders. Theyre all over the place. Theyre pretty bad.
We will rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans.
We are going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core, bring our education local.
We will support the great men and women of law enforcement. I met a lot of them backstage. Well save our Second Amendment which is totally under siege. Got to get out and vote, thats a big thing.
The National Rifle Association gave me their earliest endorsement that theyve ever given. And Wayne and Chris and all of the people there, I want to tell you folks, people can dispute, people can argue, but they love this country. The National Rifle Association, and I know the top people, they love this country, they really do. They love the country, so just remember that. When people go after them and, you know, so often, but they really do have a great love.
And I want to appoint and were going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
The time has come to cut our ties with the failed, petty policies of the past. Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and shes accomplished nothing. Shes just made things worse. During our debate, she complained about my taxes. I said, Hillary, you were there, change it, but she wont do that because all of her donors do the same thing as I do, so shes never going to do it. So I felt very strongly, I said, Hillary, youve been there for years, change it. Shes not going to change it. She doesnt do anything. She complains, she complains.
Shes the candidate of yesterday, we are the movement of the future.
Were asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, independents and first-time voters of which we have a lot of them, Im telling you. We have a lot.
All you have to do is look at those long, beautiful lines all over Florida and youre going to see a lot of them have hats that have a little phrase, right? What does that phrase say? Make America great." Those lines are long and theres -- by the way
Were asking all Americans to join this incredible movement. Were fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
Were fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hopes and prays and yearns for a much better future. Were going to bring back our jobs, folks. Were going to bring back our jobs.
Im asking you to dream big because with your vote we are just, do you believe this, six days away. Six days.
Six days. I started this in June, June 16th of last year. It seemed like it would take forever. Of course, you know, the pundits all said Donald Trump has no chance, hes got no experience at this.
Well, every once in a while some of them that knew us, theyd say be careful what you wish for. A couple of them said it, I wont mention their names, but I was complimented. They said be careful. And then one by one, right, one by one by one by one. And then we have some great people. Ben Carson has been so incredible.
So many, Chris Christie has been great. But we have great support. Mike Huckabee, I watched him on television the other day, hes been so great.
No, no, we have great support. We have great support. But one by one, now were only left with one person, crooked Hillary Clinton. Were going to win. Were going to win.
So were just six days away from the change youve been waiting for your entire life. Together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and...
We will make America great again!
Thats right, we will make America great again!
