Donald Trump|Interview: Donald Trump Calls In to Fox and Friends for An Interview|April 26, 2018
Well, good morning, and I picked a very, very special day because its Melanias birthday, so I said lets do it on Melanias birthday. So, happy birthday to Melania.
Well, I better not get into that because I may get in trouble. Maybe I didnt get her so much.
Ill tell you what. She has done -- a got her a beautiful card. You know, Im very busy --
-- to be running out looking for presents, OK? But I got her a beautiful card and some beautiful flowers.
And she did a fantastic job with France. Ill tell you what, the people of France are just -- were spellbound by what happened with their great president who just left, Emmanuel, and he is a wonderful guy and --
-- with a wonderful wife.
Well, we did and --
We did and, you know, they are both terrific people. And, Brigitte -- and we had a fantastic time.
And much more importantly, we accomplished a lot. We really accomplished a lot. More than anybody knows. Youll be seeing what we accomplished.
Well, I think we really came to recognize the -- you know, I can say it from my standpoint but he is viewing, I believe, Iran a lot differently than he did before he walked into the Oval Office and I think thats important.
He understands where Im coming from with respect to Iran. Iran is a real problem for this country. The president made a horrible deal.
When I say the president, Im talking about past administration made a horrible deal giving $150 billion, giving $1.8 billion in cash -- in actual cash carried out in barrels and in boxes from airplanes. Its inconceivable -- $1.8 billion.
And all they do is scream death to America, death to America. And by the way, theyre not screaming it so much anymore. They were screaming it with him. They dont scream it with me.
We havent seen their little boats circling our ships in the ocean lately because they know if they do circle the ships theyre not going to be there very longer.
I do.
I do.
Yes.
Well, I even told him a day or two ago. I saw where this was going.
And, you know, theyre very upset because Mike Pompeo who was again, first in his class at West Point, top in his class at Harvard Law School. A brilliant guy, a great guy, and somebody I get along with very well.
You know, Mike got through and they thought they had him stopped.
The Democrats are obstructionists. Its horrible what theyre doing. Theyre not approving people.
Theyre taking them out to the maximum 30 hours. Thats a lot of time -- 30 hours -- to interview people that are going to be approved. I mean, they go 30 hours and then people will vote, and its a disgrace.
In fact, they had a report the other day that at this rate it will be nine years before --
-- theyre allowed to come into government.
So you have that have given up everything. Theyve given up their jobs. Top-line people -- brilliant people.
They want to come in and help us in government and Chuck Schumer and the group take, you know, years to approve them -- years. We have judges that are waiting. Top of the line people. The best people in our country and --
And by the way, theyre going to be approved but they take them out until the very, very end. And they said over nine years before they get approved --
-- because theyre using every little trick in the book.
Well, he should be doing that and I think he will be doing that. And he should be doing that.
Honestly, the Republicans -- look, we have some absolute warriors. We have -- when I -- I just watched your show. Jim Jordan, and Mark Meadows, and Matt Gaetz, and DeSantis, and so many -- Corey Lewandowski.
We have people -- Diamond and Silk are warriors, by the way. How about Diamond and Silk? Theyve become amazing.
You know, that started off like somebody was talking about them on the Internet. They were these two women -- these two beautiful, wonderful, women.
And I said well, let me check it out. It took me about two seconds to say start them -- its incredible. So, Diamond and Silk, these are all warriors.
We have great people in the Republican Party and I think that, in one way, its showing how bad, how obstructionist these Democrats are. Its a disgrace whats happening.
Well, I could say yes. I can also say no because Doc Ronny -- you know, we call him Doc Ronny, we call him Admiral Ronny. Hes an admiral, highly respected, a real leader.
And I watched what Jon Tester of Montana, a state that I won by like over 20 points. You know, really, they love me and I love them. And I want to tell you that Jon Tester -- I think this is going to cause him a lot of problems in his state.
He took a man who was just an incredible man -- an incredible man respected by President Obama. He gave him his highest rating. You saw what President Obama said.
President Bush -- he was the doctor to President Bush, to President Obama and the family. Hes been my doctor.
And he runs a fantastic operation. You know, they have many doctors and they run a fantastic operation.
And honestly, I said it to him. He didnt come to me. I said, you know, Doc, you run a great operation. How do you think youd do at the V.A.?
Now, we can talk about experience but the V.A. -- when you think about 13 million people --
-- you could take the head of the biggest hospital corporation of the world and its peanuts compared to the V.A., so nobody has experience, you know. Its a big monster.
And Im really proud of the job weve done for the V.A. because we got -- were working right now on Choice and really big -- but we got rid of so many rules and regulations that made it impossible and were really doing great at the V.A.
But I want somebody thats going to be great. He wouldve done a great job --
Hes got a tremendous heart.
You know, these are all false accusations that were made. These are false and theyre trying to destroy a man.
By the way, I did say welcome to Washington. Welcome to the swamp. Welcome to the world of politics.
But for Jon Tester to start bringing up stuff like candy man and the kind of things he was saying, and then say well, you know, these are just statements that are made.
Theres no proof of this.
And he has a perfect record. Hes got this beautiful record unblemished.
His son is a wonderful boy. Goes to Annapolis, at the top of his class. One of the finest cadets.
For him to be doing this to this man and this family, I think Jon Tester has to have a big price to pay in Montana because I dont think people in Montana -- the admiral is the kind of person that they respect and admire and they dont like seeing whats happened to him.
I do, actually, but I better not give it. Maybe well do it on my next call. I do -- I think were going to have somebody great.
Somebody thats more -- you know, look, the admiral is not a politician which is what I liked, by the way.
Somebody with political capability, yes.
Right.
I did a great thing for the American people by firing him.
Look, Comey is a leaker and hes a liar and not only on this stuff. Hes been leaking for years.
Hes probably been using his friend, the so-called professor who now turns out to have FBI clearance, which he never said. He even lied about that because he never said that in Congress.
He said he gave it to a friend and he gave it to a friend to leak classified information. Its all classified. It was totally classified.
So illegally -- he did an illegal act and he said it himself in order to get a special counsel against me. So the special counsel -- and by the way, and Intelligence Committee and everybody else has found no collusion. Theres no collusion with me and the Russians.
Nobodys been tougher to Russia --
-- than I am. You can ask President Putin about that. Theres been nobody.
Between the military and the oil and all of the other things that Ive done -- the aluminum tax. They send us a lot of aluminum and I put tariffs on aluminum coming in. The 60 people that we sent out -- the 60 so-called diplomats.
Nobodys been tougher. Nobodys even been close to as tough as me and we hear this nonsense. So theres no collusion whatsoever.
Well, Comey -- what he did, Brian, was terrible. He leaked classified information in order to try and get a special counsel --
Oh, its -- well, its totally classified. And he also leaked the memos which are classified. Nobody unclassified them.
And those memos were about me and theyre phony memos. He didnt write those memos accurately. He put a lot of phony stuff.
For instance, I went to Russia for a day or so -- a day or two because I own the Miss Universe pageant. So, I went there to watch it because it was near Moscow.
So I go to Russia -- now, I did go there -- everybody knows. The locks are there, the planes are there.
He said I didnt stay there a night. Of course, I stayed there. I stayed there a very short period of time but, of course, I stayed.
Well, his memo said I left immediately. I never said that. I never said I left immediately.
So he said -- and you know, the funny thing, he does these memos and then fake news CNN whos a total fake -- you know, they give Hillary Clinton the questions to the debate and nobody -- can you imagine, by the way, if you gave me the questions to a debate? They would have you out of business --
-- and theyd have me -- you better get out of this campaign. They dont even bring it up.
I mean, CNN - fake news CNN actually gave the questions to the --
No, no -- no, no, but think of it. How bad is that?
So anyway -- so Comey leaked and, by the way, also what he did with CNN in order to placate them, you saw that whole scenario. This is a big mistake, this book.
He is guilty of crimes and if we had a Justice Department that was doing their job instead of spending $8 million trying to find --
Youre right, yes, youre right.
But heres what -- I answer this all the time.
Because of the fact that they have this witch hunt going on with people in the Justice Department that shouldnt be there -- they have a witch hunt against the President of the United States going on -- Ive taken the position -- and I dont have to take this position and maybe Ill change -- that I will not be involved with the Justice Department. I will wait until this is over.
Its a total -- its all lies and its a horrible thing thats going on.
A horrible thing and yet, Ive accomplished, with all of this going on, more than any president in the first year in our history. And everybody --
Even the enemies and the haters admit that.
We have accomplished more than any president in the first year, by far. If you look at regulations, and the big tax cuts, and Judge Gorsuch -- so many things -- and many other judges.
But the big thing -- the tax cuts, the regulations -- nobodys done what weve done -- what Ive done despite whats going on.
So Im very disappointed in my Justice Department but because of the fact that its going under, and I think youll understand this, I have decided that I wont be involved. I may change my mind at some point because whats going on is a disgrace. Its an absolute --
-- disgrace.
And by the way, the only collusion is the collusion with the Democrats and the Russians. You take a look at whats going on there. They wouldnt even give their server -- the DNC, Democratic National Committee, wouldnt even give its server to the FBI.
So what kind of an FBI -- they break down doors for Paul Manafort early in the morning. His wife is in bed like at five or six in the morning. And they undo the lock for Michael Cohen early in the morning.
And yet, they walk into the DNC and they wont give them the server. They said were not giving you the server. Oh, OK, well leave.
Thats not the FBI. Thats a fix.
I did. He --
Hes a good person. Hes a great guy.
Brian, you know Michael. Michaels been on your show, Im sure, a lot. You know, Michael --
-- is a good person.
Let me just tell you that Michael is in business. Hes really a businessman at fairly big businesses, I understand. And I dont know his business but this doesnt have to do with me.
Michael is a businessman. Hes got a business. He also practices law.
I would say probably the big thing is his business and theyre looking at something having to do with his business. I have nothing to do with his business.
I can tell you hes a good guy. He sometimes --
I have many, many -- just so you understand, I have many attorneys. I have attorneys -- sadly, I have so many attorneys you wouldnt even believe it.
Well, he has a percentage of my overall legal work -- a tiny, tiny little fraction. But, Michael would represent me and represent me on some things.
He represents me -- like with this crazy Stormy Daniels deal he represented me. And, you know, from what I see he did absolutely nothing wrong. There were no campaign funds going into this --
-- which would have been a problem.
Because hes got other things. Hes got businesses and from what I understand theyre looking at his businesses, and I hope hes in great shape.
But hes got businesses and his lawyers probably told him to do that.
But Im not involved and Im not involved -- and Ive been told Im not involved.
That just came out of the newspapers.
Ive been told Im not involved in that.
Hes got good taste.
Yes. Well, they do.
You know, I have known Kanye a little bit and I get along with Kanye. I get along with a lot of people, frankly.
But Kanye looks and he sees black unemployment at the lowest its been in the history of our country, OK? He sees Hispanic unemployment at the lowest its been in the history of our country. He sees, by the way, female unemployment -- women unemployment the lowest its been in now almost 19 years.
He sees that stuff and hes smart. And he says you know what, Trump is doing a much better job than the Democrats did.
And by the way, if they ever got in and started putting back all these rules and regulations where you cant breathe, where businesses go out of business, our country would be in big trouble.
And had I not gotten elected, Hillary would have come in. She would have added more rules and regulations. We would have been out of business because you saw what was happening. We were going down.
You know, I think it was just a custom. People dont realize, you know, if you go back to the Civil War it was the Republicans that really did the thing. Lincoln was a Republican.
I mean, somehow it changed over the years and I will say I really believe its changing back. Remember, I was going to get no black votes?
I was going to get none? Well, I got a lot. I got a lot of support, you know, and I should have gotten much more.
Now -- in fact, I used to go around saying what do you have to lose? Id say that at speeches, remember? Id go into a stadium. Id talk about the African-American vote.
I said the education is not good. The -- obviously, the law enforcement that your community -- the crime is at levels that nobodys ever seen before. You know, Id go through like seven, 10 stats.
Id say vote for me. What do you have to lose?
So now theyve voted for me crime is way down and really importantly, the unemployment picture --
-- is the best its been in the history of our country for African-Americans.
All right, Ill tell you what happened.
Shania, who I think is terrific but she made a mistake by sort of saying I wish I didnt, you know, go public with it, but we know how she feels.
But people have done that and theyre amazed at what happens to their business because we have tremendous support. We have tremendous fans. If I ever called for a rally in Washington, D.C. wed have millions of people coming into Washington because they love whats happening.
So when I see a Kanye sticking to his guns or when I see others, and there are plenty of others, sticking to their guns and coming out and saying that you have a young lady whos been very much in the news in the last three or four days --
-- because she is -- she is fantastic. Shes like the hottest thing out there now. If you have people do that they become much more popular.
Remember, we won the election and we won it easily. You know, a lot of people say oh, it was close.
And by the way, they also like to always talk about Electoral College. Well, its an election based on the Electoral College. I would rather have a popular election but its a totally different campaign.
Its as though youre running -- if youre a runner youre practicing for the 100-yard dash as opposed to the one-mile. The Electoral College is different.
I would rather have the popular vote because its -- to me, its much easier to win.
Yes, but we have an Electoral College --
I got 306 and she got what, 223. So, remember --
-- there was no way to break 270.
I heard that on CBS, and NBC, and ABC. Theyre all fake news.
I heard that for so long -- and CNN. But I heard that for so long. There is no way.
So what theyre trying to do is suppress the vote. Everyone goes home and says you know, I really like Donald Trump but Ive watched on the news -- and they dont know its fake news. Ive taught them its fake news.
Ive watched on the news that he cant win, so lets go to a movie, darling, and then well come home and well watch --
But I think that --
I think hell do better than people think in the midterms.
Did you know its very --
The economy is so strong and jobs are so good that I think were going to surprise -- you know, we won an election yesterday in Arizona.
Nobody talks about it. They had these massive booths set up for CNN and everybody. They had these big booths set up because they were hoping -- you know, they spent a fortune on the Democrat and the Republican won -- Lesko.
And you know what, nobody talks about it.
Well, I can.
First of all, were doing very well with North Korea and well see how it all comes out.
Again, Brian, Im not like Obama where you go in and you have a Kerry, whos the worst negotiator Ive ever seen. He goes in for the Iran deal, he never leaves.
He shouldve left. He shouldve just left. He would have -- could have made a much better deal.
But -- so it could be that I walk out quickly -- with respect, but it could be. It could be that maybe the meeting doesnt even take place. Who knows? But I can tell you right now they want to meet.
They wanted to go to the Olympics.
Look, it was very, very nasty with Little Rocket Man and with the buttons -- and, you know, my buttons bigger than -- everybody said this guys going to get us into nuclear war.
Let me tell you. The nuclear war would have happened if you had weak people. We had weak people.
This should have been settled long before I came into office. This is a much different ballgame than if they did it five or 10 or 20 years ago. This is a much more dangerous ballgame now.
But I will tell you its going very well.
Mike Pompeo did go there. He wasnt supposed to meet with Kim Jong Un but he did. He -- you know, they arranged, actually while he was there, to say hello.
We have incredible pictures of the two talking and meeting which Id love to release. If we can Ill do that, actually. Its not a bad idea.
No, it was more than a hello. They got along. They were with each other for, you know, more than an hour.
They spoke and he also spoke with his counterparts in North Korea. They had a great meeting. He then left.
It was very, very secret -- very, very quiet. They had a great meeting -- he left.
And, you know, when I watch -- liked I watched sleepy eyes Chuck Todd the other day saying why is the president giving up so much and North Koreas giving up nothing? This was at the beginning of Meet the Press, which, I mean, this guy shouldnt even be --
-- on the show.
So I said to myself well, wait a minute, Im seeing it just the opposite. I havent given up anything. I havent even talked about it. I havent given up anything. Were not giving up much.
Im not giving up much.
Theyve given up denuclearization, testing, research. Were going to close different sites.
And Im saying to myself, wait a minute. All of these things hes given up and we havent even really that much asked them because we would have asked them but they gave it before I even asked.
So I have this guy, fake news -- hes on television saying why am I giving up something? I never gave up anything.
The people have to understand how dishonest the news is. And in all fairness to Fox, you guys dont always treat me great but you treat me fairly. You know, its not like Fox is perfect for me. Theyre not -- theyre tough but at least its fair.
When you look at some of the others -- you look at like a CNN, theyll have a council of seven people and of the seven people every one of them is against me. Im saying, where do we -- where do they even find these people?
I appreciate the --
I dont watch them at all. I watched last night.
Ill tell you what. I watched leaking, lying Comey last night and I did -- I did -- I hated to do it.
You know, one of the reasons people say youre still looking good, Mr. President. How do you do it?
Well, one of the things Ive been able to do, which is something I never thought I had the ability -- I would always watch when I was -- now, frankly, I dont have time for two reasons. Theres too much and I dont have time.
But I would watch -- whether its good or bad, Id always watch.
I have an ability -- I dont watch NBC anymore. Theyre as bad as CNN.
I dont -- and by the way, I made them a fortune with THE APPRENTICE. Think of that one. I made them -- and I did 19 episodes.
No, but I made them a fortune.
You would think that these guys would treat me great. I made them a fortune. So they treat me horribly --
-- and they treat me falsely.
But just one thing. I dont watch things now. I can put it out of my mind and I never, ever thought that that would be possible.
And you know what that does? It keeps you on the ball. It keeps you -- you keep your sanity and it works very well.
But last night I did watch --
I did watch a liar-leaker and his performance, by the way, was horrible. And I will say this. Anderson Cooper was surprisingly tough and he did a good job.
We have a decision to be made. We have three or four dates and that includes --
-- locations. We have five locations --
-- and that will all be narrowed down.
I can only say this. When I came into office people thought we were going into nuclear war, OK, and now theyre saying wow --
-- it looks like thats going to be taken care.
I think were doing very well. Lets see what happens.
Right.
Look, Im fighting a battle against a horrible group of deep-seated people -- drained the swamp -- that are coming up with all sorts of phony charges against me, and theyre not bringing up real charges against the other side.
So we have a phony deal going on and its a cloud over my head. And Ive been able to do -- to really escape that cloud because the message now everyone knows -- its a fix, OK. Its a witch hunt and they know that and Ive been able to message it.
I would give myself an A+. Nobody has done --
-- what Ive been able to do and I did it despite the fact that I have a phony cloud over my head that doesnt exist.
It was what the Democrats used to try and make an excuse for their loss of an election -- for their loss of the Electoral College that they should never lose because the Electoral College is set up perfectly for the Democrats and this was an absolute total beating in the Electoral College.
They should never lose the Electoral College and they did --
-- and they got thwamped.
Well, if I can. The problem is that its such a -- its such -- if you take a look theyre so conflicted. The people that are doing the investigation -- you have 13 people that are Democrats.
You have Hillary Clinton people. You have people that worked on Hillary Clintons foundation. Theyre all -- I dont mean Democrats, I mean like the real deal.
And then you look at the phony Lisa Page and Strzok and the memos back and forth, and the FBI. And by the way, you take a poll at the FBI. I love the FBI, the FBI loves me.
But the top people in the FBI, headed by Comey, were crooked.
You look at McCabe where he takes $700,000 from somebody supporting Hillary Clinton. He takes $700,000 for his wifes campaign. And by the way, didnt even spend that money. They kept some of it because under that law youre -- he took seven.
He took $700,000 from a group headed by Terry McAuliffe who was under investigation by McCabe and the FBI and that investigation disappeared. He took $700,000.
And you look at the corruption at the top of the FBI. Its a disgrace.
And our Justice Department, which I try and stay away from, but at some point I wont.
Our Justice Department should be looking at that kind of stuff, not the nonsense of collusion with Russia. There is no collusion with me --
-- and Russia, and everyone knows it.
Sure.
Well, you could have --
And, Ainsley, good luck with your book. Its going to be a winner.
Thank you very much.
OK, thank you.
Sounds OK.
Good. Thank you, bye.
