Donald Trump|Interview: Donald Trump Calls in to Fox & Friends on His Birthday|June 14, 2019
Good morning.
Well, I think Ill just work, if you want to know. And when you say celebrate --
I dont have time to celebrate.
Yes, well have a little piece of cake tonight, but in the meantime were doing a lot of things. Were doing a lot of good things. A lot of things that are turning out to be very good for our country. I enjoy that doing more. Thats better than taking it easy. Theres always going to be plenty of time to take it easy, I guess.
No, I love the job. Well, its the fake media. You know, theyre just so fake. You dont even respond to them anymore. No, I love it because I dont think anybodys accomplished so much in two and a half years, what weve done. You know, I watched Natalie Harp --
That young, beautiful woman, who was --
They made some kind of a medical mistake a long time ago and shes lived a tough time. And I watched her. I think shes one of the best guests youve ever had. She was so -- her spirt was so incredible. And it was about Right to Try. And Ive got Right to Try approved. Theyve been trying to get it for 44 years approved and they couldnt and I got it done, where people that have a real problem, people that are terminally ill in many cases that only people really at -- at a certain level, they couldnt go and use any of our great medicines, any of our great genius that we have, and we have the greatest in the world medically, and in other ways too.
And I think she was just one of your great guests. I -- I thought it was amazing.
Well, shes got a great shot. And, you know, many other people are like that where Right to Try has helped them where, you know, they used to go to Asia, theyd go all over the world looking for a cure. Now they can stay home. And we have the best medicines, but theyre being -- you know, in a line, where you have to wait.
It has to be approved and you wouldnt be able to give it to anybody. Now were able to do that. And it was a complex process, believe it or not. But for 44 years they tried and they couldnt get it. We got it.
And theres so many people like Natalie, but I thought she was just an incredible person.
Well, Iran did do it. And you know they did it because you saw the boat. I guess one of the mines didnt explode and its probably got essentially Iran written all over it. And you saw the boat at night trying to take the mine off and successfully took the mine off the boat.
And that was exposed. And that was their boat. That was them. And they didnt want the evidence left behind. I guess they dont know that we have things that we can detect in the dark that work very well. So we have that. And know you put it on. So, no, it was them that did it. And, look, President Obama made a deal --
President Obama made a deal that was an outrage. The Iran deal, which, frankly, in five or six years of a short period of time theyd be allowed to make nuclear weapons. They cannot have nuclear weapons. They understand theyre not going to have nuclear weapons. We -- we have enough problems with nuclear weapons, which is one of the great difficulties, frankly, if you look forward, one of the great difficulties of the world.
Not going to happen with them. And well see what happens.
We are being very tough. Yes, were being very tough on sanctions. When I came into office, they were a -- an absolute terror. They were all over the place. They were in Yemen. They were in Syria. We have 14 different sites of conflict. They were in charge of every single -- every single place. And they really are.
Theyre a nation of terror. And theyve changed a lot since Ive been president, I can tell you. They were unstoppable and now they are in deep, deep trouble. They -- you cant -- you cant -- they dont have anything.
Well, were going to see. Were going to see. Were going to see how to stop. I dont think theyve talked the same way. When President Obama signed that agreement, they were screaming "death to America," "death to America."
They were having a good time at his expense and hes given them 150 billion and hes given them 1.8 billion in cash, cash, nobody ever heard of a thing like that, and all of that money and theyre screaming "death to America." They havent screamed "death to America" lately. So well see what happens. But we dont take it lightly, that I can tell you.
Well, theyre not going to be closing it. Its not going to be -- if it closes, its not going to be closed for long. And they know it. And theyve been told in very strong terms. And we want to get them back to the table if they want to go back.
Im ready when they are. But whenever theyre ready, its OK. In the meantime, Im in no rush. Im in no rush.
Well, Im glad he likes me so much, but no reason why he should like me. Look, I came in. They were -- they had all the money. They had everything. They were doing just fantastically, threatening everybody. They were bombing the hell out of countries. They were killing people all over the Middle East. And now, all of a sudden, theyre pulling back.
Theyre pulling back from everywhere. Theyre pulling back out of Syria. Theyre pulling back out of Yemen. Theyre pulling back -- if you take a look at whats actually happening.
And Im not looking to hurt that country, but they cant have a nuclear weapon. Its very simple. And if you look at the Iran nuclear deal, how bad it was, we gave them all that money and in six to seven years, which, for a nation, is no time. Thats like one second. In six to seven years, they would be able to legally start making nuclear weapons.
Were not going to have it.
Well, I dont…that. I think it was accurately stated and Ive had a lot of support in this and --
Yes. I mean Ive had a lot of support. First of all, I dont think anybody would present me with anything bad because they know how much I love this country. Nobodys going to present me with anything bad. Number two, if I was -- and, of course, you have to look at it, because if you dont look at it youre not going to know if its bad.
How are you going to know if its bad? But, of course, you give it to the FBI or report it to the attorney general or somebody like that. But, of course, you do that. You wouldnt -- you couldnt have that happen with our country. And everybody understands that. And I thought it was made clear. In fact, I actually said at the beginning, I think I said Id do both.
But how are you going to -- if you dont hear what it is --
Youre not going to know what it is.
I mean how can you report something that you dont know?
No, no, they say, oh, he would -- he would accept it. Well, if I dont listen, youre not going to know. Now, if I thought anything was incorrect or badly stated, Id report it to attorney general, the FBI. Id report it to law enforcement, absolutely.
Now, one thing thats --
One thing thats different with the president, I had dinner with the queen. I had -- I met with the prime minister of the U.K. I was with the head of France. I was with the head of all these nations and I constantly am, constantly talking to them. And, you know, that puts us in a different -- we -- we have many, many conversations.
And Im just thinking, gee, if they say, we dont like your opponent, am I supposed to put -- you know, the president of France, am I supposed to report him to the FBI? You know, Im in a little bit of a different position than a lot of other people.
Like I said, Brian, the president of the United States, no matter who it is, whether its me or anybody else, is in a much different position because I hear things that, frankly, good, bad or indifferent that other people dont hear, just in normal conversation.
But nobody is going to say bad things to me. They know that Im a very straight player. They know one thing about me, I love this country more than anything. I love this country. Thats why Im doing this.
And I do -- and, by the way, I do love doing it. And the reason I love doing it, because were doing a great job. Youre doing -- there hasnt been a job like this. You look at China, you look at the way thats working out, you watch what happens.
Look at whats happening at the border. Look at whats happening -- look at whats happening at the border of Mexico. A lot of good things are happening. Things that theyve been trying to get approved, Brian, for 25 years. I got them done in one day. I put the tariffs on and we got them approved. And Mexicos been terrific.
And, you know, its really slowing down. But I watched Lindsey Graham, and hes right, we have to get help from Congress. The Democrats in Congress. So Im not giving up hope. And we need help from Congress.
Oh, absolutely. Look, heres the bottom line. They spied on my campaign and they got caught, OK. They spied on my campaign and they got caught. Whether its the insurance policy that just in case Hillary Clinton loses we have an insurance policy essentially saying to take him out, this is probably the worst or certainly one of the worst political scandals in the history of our country.
And theyve hurt --
Well, you know what, Ill -- Ill go with what Mark Levin said, because nobody could say it better, its a fascist statement, its a disgraceful statement. I call her "nervous Nancy." Shes a nervous wreck. And Ill tell you what, for her to make a statement like that is outrageous. Her party got caught spying.
I mean if you look at what happened, Hillary Clinton, with the money that ultimately went to Russia for the fake dossier, that total fake pile of stuff, that money gets paid -- and, by the way, the amount of money that was paid and was paid by Hillary Clinton and the DNC and it went to Russia, thats the criminal.
And when you look at -- when you look at what happened in terms of the campaign, when you look at what happened in terms of the spying, she never mentions that. Isnt it amazing that constantly every day somebody gets a letter, come into Congress, come into Congress, because, you know, its like death to a thousand wounds.
And I will tell you, its so unfair what they are doing. And I really think that people are wise to it. But when Nancy Pelosi makes a statement like that, she ought to be ashamed of herself. Its a disgrace.
Well, probably the big --
The big thing though is they spied on my campaign. Thats probably one of the great criminal acts of all time. Now, lets see what happens. Lets see what happens.
Brian, Andy McCabe is a disaster. Andy McCabe, with what we have and with what he said and with the lies and the cover-ups and all of the leaking and all of the things and -- and the Strzok and the Page, who report, you know, Strzok and his lover Page, the FBI people that reported to Andy McCabe -- and, by the way, Andy McCabe reported to Comey -- with what theyve done and with everything that we have and, of course, I cant go much further because I guess its being looked at very, very seriously.
Well see. But the bottom line is, they spied on a campaign of another candidate and another party. And this is one of the most serious things in the history of our country. Theres never been anything like this. And they used the intelligence agencies to do it.
So this is big stuff. Well see how it turns out. But when Nancy Pelosi makes a statement like that, she should be ashamed.
Well, now its turning out that thats minimum. Look at what theyve done with Page and with -- with all of these -- these people where, you know, the FISA -- we have to see whats going on with the whole FISA, but I -- I assume all of thats being looked at. I hope its being looked at. And, you know, youre going to have a very interesting period of time.
But why -- why isnt Congress, you know, oversight, why arent they looking at the e-mails that were deleted from Hillary Clinton? Nobody can understand 33,000 e-mails request from Congress.
After they get the request -- because, you know, to me theres been a lot of criminality, in my opinion, but I -- I dont say it with -- I have to say subject checking it. But when you look at it -- heres something that to me is so simple, Congress requests the e-mails, OK. She deletes all of them. Everything deleted.
And shes -- this is after they get the request from the United States Congress. She deletes 33,000. Now, thats only 33,000. And what about the one with her friends almost mayor of New York, and thank God that didnt happen, OK. Thank God that didnt happen.
So you have Anthony Weiner, who is -- got a lot of problems. But they used his laptop and all of the information that went through his laptop, I mean, they put people in jail for doing one slightly little confidential, which is a much lower level of confidential.
So its -- its -- theres been so much corruption and so -- and nobody ever looks at it.
No one has.
And now -- now I hope they are.
And, again, I stay uninvolved. I -- maybe I shouldnt. Somebody else would say, oh, hes involved. I say, we have a great attorney general. Hes doing a great job. Theyre putting him under tremendous pressure. Theyre doing things that they have never done before. Theyre playing a very rough game. But they never look at Hillary Clintons e-mail deletions.
Its a really -- its a disgraceful thing thats going on. But, in the end, its going to all work out. I will just leave it at this, it may be the single biggest political crime in the history of our country. They spied on the opposing partys campaign using the intelligence apparatus of the United States.
Never happened, a thing like that before.
No. Well, the fake news doesnt want it. Now, at some point, the fake news is going to be forced to do it, you know.
Things happen that are, you know, like the McCabes of the world, they act like these little innocent people. Theyre not innocent. These are very, very dangerous people.
No. I have a lot of people that want it. And there are a lot of great people. And its the -- sometimes you have so many that it makes it more difficult. But we have some great -- but Sarah was fantastic and she is fantastic and shes going to have a tremendous future. Shes been with me three and a half years, close to four years.
And she has been a warrior in a sense. No, the news has been very, very -- you know, I -- I saw that you had a guest on before who talked about the unfairness of the media.
If -- if I were a Democrat liberal, I think Id say I was the greatest president in history. You know, its just one of those -- with all that Ive done. Like, as an example, Right to Try, like tax reductions, the biggest ever, biggest in the history of the country, like regulation reduction, like straightening out the VA and getting the veterans choice and accountability.
You know, you couldnt fire anybody in the Veterans Administration if they were -- you know, terrible. For 50 years theyve been trying to get its called accountability. I got it passed. I got VA Choice passed. In other words, the veterans dont have to wait in line for six weeks trying to get a doctor.
If they have to wait, they go outside, get a private doctor. All these things we got done. If I were the liberal Democrat, theyd be saying hes the greatest ever. But thats the way it goes. Thats OK with me.
Well, I like Anthony, and hes been very nice and all but I think Anthony -- he should stay where he is right now.
Hes doing a -- hes --
And hes doing a good job and lets -- lets keep it that way for a little while. But -- but Anthony really is a good guy. Stephanie is terrific. We have a lot of --
We have a lot of great people. We have a lot of people to choose from.
Right.
Well, I got briefed on it yesterday and it looks to me like theyre trying to take away her right of free speech. And thats just not fair. They asked a question. If her -- I think one of them was involved with your show. But you ask them a question, or you ask a person a question and every time youre supposed to say, I cant answer, I cant answer.
I mean shes got to have a right of -- of responding to questions. She -- it really sounds to me like a free-speech thing. It doesnt sound fair. So Im going to look at it very carefully.
No, Im not going to fire her. I think shes a terrific person. Shes a tremendous spokesperson. Shes been loyal. Shes been -- shes just a great person. I would certainly not think -- based on what I saw yesterday, how could you do that? They have tried to take away her speech. And I think youre entitled to free speech in this country.
Well, but it doesnt work that way because lets say that I think Biden was one of the people that she was accused of criticizing, but he criticized me and we then criticized him --
Or she criticized him. And its not -- its -- shes making a point. Shes trying to make a point. And how could you do this? Basically youd have to take a person off. A person wouldnt be able to express themselves. And I just dont see it. Now, Im going to get a very strong briefing on it and Ill see, but it seems to me to be very unfair.
Its called freedom of speech.
So the wall is going up. Its going up rapidly. Were going to have over 400 miles of wall built by the end of next year. The wall is very important. Its hard to breach it. Its high. Its strong. Its powerful. And its going up at a much lower cost than the wall that was planned prior to me getting there.
Its a much better wall, too. We have -- you have to see what they build. Its a disgrace. And were actually fixing it and in some cases we have to take down fairly new wall because it was so bad. But were going to have over 400 miles of wall built. And thats going to be in the most important areas. And were going to have all of it built before you know.
But this is despite tremendous --
Obstacles that have been put in front of me by the Democrats.
You have no idea.
And we just won the lawsuit on the wall. We won a big lawsuit on the wall. Brought by Nancy Pelosi. This one was brought by Nancy Pelosi. And maybe thats criminal that shes allowing drug dealers and gang members into our country. Maybe thats criminal when you talk about it because whats happening on the border is -- were getting it straightened out.
Its a tough -- you know how easy it would be to solve it. If we met for 15 minutes with the Democrats --
You could solve the asylum problem and the loopholes in 15 minutes, and they know it.
Yes.
Right.
Right.
Thats right.
Of course I would. I want to get something done. They know I want to get something done but they think its good politics not to do anything. And I think its bad politics from their side.
I think its good politics from our side. I think by them not doing it, its good for us, but I dont want good for us, I want good for the country.
And, frankly --
You bet I would.
Sure I would. I -- Id negotiate with them gladly. The problem we have is we have an election coming up and they think open borders and crime and drugs and everything else are good. I mean, if you look at it, open borders mean crime. It just means crime. It means anybody can pour into the country. Now, I have to say, with all of this being said, the deal that I made with Mexico, they put 6,000 soldiers, paid for by them, they paid -- put 6,000 soldiers at their southern border.
The stoppage is unbelievable. And I got reports yesterday, its like day and night. Now, with all of that being said, we still want to get -- and we -- its -- its really incredible whats happened and all because of the tariffs and because of relationships. But, again, for 25 years theyve been trying to make a deal with Mexico.
Theyve never been able to do a deal like I did.
And I did it in two days because I was serious about -- we were putting major tariffs on Mexico that following Monday. And we did it. On Sunday it was finished and we have everything.
Now, with all of that being said, we still need to fix asylum and we have to fix things from our country.
I said the other day, Mexicos doing more for us on the border than the Democrats in Congress.
They are cracking down.
Its exactly right. I mean its exactly right. Thats whats going to happen. And theyve -- theyve got 45 days. Theyre doing really well. Theyre doing, frankly, better than projected. They have 6,000 soldiers. I know "The Times" wrote a phony story. You look at that "New York Times." Its a disgrace to our nation.
The Times wrote a phony story that I had the deal done two months ago and I could have announced it. I didnt have the deal done. I could have never gotten a deal done. Until I used tariffs, there was no way to get a deal. Mexicos been talking about that deal for 20 years. And longer.
But they --
They wouldnt do a deal. And it was only recently that I said, look, on Monday we had it and on Monday either we do it or our country is going to collect hundreds of -- billions of dollars, by the way, hundreds of billions of dollars. All of the car companies -- you know, long before I got here, we lost 32 percent of our car industry, our automobile manufacturing business, to Mexico.
Theyre made in Mexico. And tremendous amounts of money are made by Mexico on cars and everything else at the border. And I said, look, were going to tax all of your product coming into the United States or youre going to help us with this horrible situation. The reason that people are coming, by the way, is because our country is doing so well, our unemployment numbers are the lowest theyve ever been in many categories, ever been historically.
If you take the worst number, its the lowest in 51 years.
So our numbers are so good, our economy is so strong and doing so good that people are pouring up to our country. But you have to come in legally and you have to come in through a merit. Thats the way we have it.
Look, everybody knows that Joe Biden does not have what it takes. OK, he doesnt have what it takes. Everybody knows that. You watch him --
If you -- it means mental capacity. It means a lot of different things. He doesnt have -- never did have what it takes. Until Obama took -- he ran two or three times. I used to call him 1 percent Joe because he never got more than 1 percent. Then Obama came along and surprisingly he took him off of -- I say the trash heap -- and ran.
But everybody knows Joe is -- is -- doesnt have it. Now I see that Pocahontas is doing better. I would love to run against her, frankly. I see that Bernie Sanders is not doing well at all. I would have, frankly, liked to have run against -- I think its probably those three. I dont see the other ones -- I really dont see it. They talk about Kamala.
I dont see Kamala. I dont see -- I think its probably between the three of them.
Mayor Pete, I dont see at all. I think thats a joke, Mayor Pete.
Its incorrect polling. Yes, its incorrect.
Well, the polls I see, were doing great in Pennsylvania. Were doing really good in North Carolina. Florida, Im winning by a lot. Ohio, Im winning by a lot. I just left Iowa. Were winning that by a lot. And every poll that I see and every poll that we have, Im winning by -- were doing well. I think were going to do very well in Michigan.
Traditionally its Democrat, but I won it last time because I have ten car companies building plants in Michigan and bringing back the automobile business to Michigan.
So I think were going to do well there. I was up in Wisconsin recently. I think were going to do very well there. You know, I think -- I think were going to do great.
Now, look, were going to have a competitive race. Its always -- its always tougher for the Republican because, you know, I dont know, people -- people never cover this, but the Electoral College is very much steered to the Democrats. Its a big advantage for the Democrats. Its very much harder for the Republicans to win.
And I think were going to do very well. I think were going to have a great election because of what weve done and what weve accomplished.
Well, its far to -- look, I love Mike. Were running again. But, you know, youre talking about a long time. So you cant put me in that position. But I --I certainly would give it very strong consideration.
Hes a very, very outstanding person.
And were going to be announcing on Tuesday, we have a tremendous -- were announcing in Orlando on Tuesday and we have over 100,000 people trying to get seats. One of the problems I think Biden has, he cant get crowds. I mean he -- nobody goes.
He cant get 100 people.
We have 100,000 -- we have 106,000 people applying for 22,000 seats in Orlando, Florida. So, I dont know. I -- you know, you cant -- if you cant --
Well, he -- he flip-flopped.
Right. Yes, no, he flip-flops, theres no question about that. And --
Hes got -- whether its the Hyde Amendment, so many different things, hes flip-flopping. And Im not sure that thats a good thing for him to be doing. Maybe he knows. Look, the Democrats have become a radical left party and he probably figures he cant win, but Im not sure hes even thinking about it. I think he has other people doing his thinking --
Because hes having a hard time thinking lately.
OK, let me just tell you about the positions. First of all, you dont need all these positions. Its government. You have so many positions. Many you dont need. But, more importantly, Schumer and the Democrats are holding people up for a year and a half and two years. We have ambassadors that are phenomenal people, phenomenal, absolutely and you cant get them through because of the system, because Schumer wont approve people.
So its taking us long -- we have 200 people waiting in line to be approved and you cant get them. And we have focused, Mitch McConnell, myself and the Republicans have focused on judges because judges are a primary focus. Were running government great. We dont need all the people they want to give us.
We have seats that I say dont even put them in. You dont need them. As I say, save the money for the taxpayer. But we do have people that have been waiting for -- ambassadors in particular waiting for a period of over two years because Schumer wont do it. Now, what we have focused on, frankly, is judges.
We just have the 107th federal judge, two Supreme Court judges, and Im going to have 145 federal judges, its going to soon be setting records because when I took over, for some reason, President -- and it hasnt been covered -- but President Obama --
I dont know why, but he gave me 138 judges empty when I took over. Its never happened before. No presidents ever taken over with --
He didnt get the job done. Obama didnt get the job done.
He got the nomination. Well, no, no, hes gotten -- look, hes -- hes been recommended. Now he has to be approved by Congress. So were going to see. Were going to see. Pat Shanahan has been recommended for the job. McAleenan, he is doing a very nice job. Were going to see. Ive got to get used to him because its a very important thing to me, the border.
We need strong people at the border. And if people arent strong, theyre not going to do a good job.
Its very simple.
Well, no, I havent -- I havent put in the final recommendation. Hes acting. I put him as acting. And hes working very hard. And we have some great people, as you know, we have some fantastic people that just went in, Mark Morgan and --
And were going to have, I will tell you, Tom Homan, whos a great man, whos been on your show many times. We have a lot of people
Ah, we have Ken Cuccinelli. Ken Cuccinelli just took over. Hes fantastic. Hes tough as you get and smart and hes doing much of the legal work and --
So were -- were -- were putting in some great, strong but fair and good people.
Tom Homans coming back. Yes, Tom Homans coming back.
I would say that would be announced next week except Id rather announce it now. So Tom Homans coming back and hes very much --
Hes going to be very much involved in the border, thats what he wants to be involved with. And, again, a big difference in the border between now and this time last week. Mexico has been doing a -- a terrific job. Hey, 6,000 soldiers.
And if it doesnt work out, then we go back to very strong measures. And I dont want to have to do that.
Yes.
Oh, well, Im sorry. Hell have to re -- hell have to get back .
Well, hell be a border czar. Hell be very much involved in the border. Hell be reporting directly to me. Hell be probably working out of the White House but spending a lot of time at the border. And hes a good man. Hes a good man. Done a good job.
Right.
Right.
Well, Ronny is not -- I did, I nominated him for VA. And it was sort of very sad, actually. Great reputation. He was President Obama and President Bushs doctor. He was my doctor. An excellent guy. An admiral and a doctor. And I said to him, how would you like to run the VA? And he said, sir -- he didnt want the job.
He said, sir, Ill do whatever youd like to do. So I threw his name out. Didnt really put him out. I threw it -- and the Democrats just absolutely went after him and were so unfair what they did to him. I said, welcome to the world of politics. Welcome to the world of living in Washington. And they went after him so viciously.
Now, ultimately, we put a man there who has done a fantastic job, been approved. Hes been great. We, you know, again, weve got VA Choice, weve got VA Accountability approved. And it was quite a while ago with Ronny. No, but Ronnys doing very well right now, Ronny Jackson is doing very well. But hes not -- hes not going to the VA.
Well, were going to take a look. It was very sad what happened. His son just graduated from Annapolis at -- with very high in his class. Hes an outstanding person. I feel very guilty having thrown his name into a ring. If I threw you guys -- if I asked one of you to -- you know, maybe Ainsley would do it. I think maybe Id be better off with -- Ainsley, shed go by sail -- shed go by swimmingly, OK --
But, I would --
I think well take -- hey, Steve, lets take Brian and ask him to serve in any capacity, and watch what happens to Brian. Brian, you wouldnt be happy for a little while.
Yes.
Right.
Right.
Well, the whole criminal justice reform’s been amazing because it’s been very, very conservative and very, very liberal. Everybody got together. It was unbelievable bipartisan. Nobody could get it done. They all said it was impossible. People like Senator Grassley and Senator Mike Lee, you know, very conservative people and very liberal people, everybody wanted to see that they could get something done and yet nobody got it done, for again, many, many years they didn’t get it done.
This – they had a crime bill put in by President Clinton which turned out to be a disaster for – especially for certain communities, and they were very angry about it. Very, very angry. She had a lot of problems last time with it when she ran, frankly. And it’s been incredible what we’ve been able to do, and you’re right.
Kim has been wonderful, and Alice Johnson. So she was in for 22 years, a lovely woman. She spent 22 years in jail and she had another 20 years left, and nothing’s minor and there’s nobody tougher than me. I want strong sentences especially for drug dealers and all of this, but she was caught up in something that was today they – it would be – unfortunately it would be a slap on the wrist.
She knows she did wrong, but she was in for 22 years and she had another 20 to serve, and it was so unfair. We let her out and a really beautiful scene. And I saw you cover it, Ainsley. It was so beautiful the piece you did.
She came out of prison –
I know. I know.
I know. There are many Alice Johnsons right now in prison and we’re seeking them out. We’re seeking them out.
When she came out of prison and her family grabbed her – her family grabbed her and they –
– started hugging and kissing and crying and everything else, I mean, that was a beautiful moment. That was really an unfair situation. So criminal justice reform, the Trump administration got approved. It’s like right to try and the VA choice. All these things we’re getting approved. Now, nobody writes about them, OK, because they don’t want to write about them.
Somebody said, “oh, this is going to be great.” You know, The Times barely covered it and yet if I were a liberal democrat and I did criminal justice reform, it would be the biggest story in the history of The New York Times, OK?
Right.
Right.
It doesn’t matter. If he shows up, good. If he doesn’t, in the meantime we’re taking in billions of dollars a month, Brian, from China. And by the way, they subsidize their industry, so our people are not paying. You know, there’s this big thing about tariffs. Oh, our people pay. It’s a lot of nonsense. You what happens really?
They – companies move back. For instance, if I put tariffs on Mexico, 20, 25 percent, started it with 5. We never even got there because we made a deal.
But if I put tariffs on, as an example, Mexico, you know what would happen? 25 percent. All the car companies would move back to the United States because they don’t want to pay the 25 percent, OK? Our people aren’t going to pay for anything because in a short period of time all of that 32 percent that I told you about – we lost 32 percent of our car industry stupidly over the last 20 years because of NAFTA, which is a terrible deal.
Which by the USMCA, the new deal with Mexico and Canada, I hope that Nancy Pelosi approves it because it’s a phenomenal deal for our country – hundreds of billions of dollars and jobs and everything else, so I hope they get it approved. I hope that doesn’t get caught up into politics. Everybody wants it –
Well, we’re going to see. Eventually they’re going to make a deal because they’re going to have to. Look, they’re paying hundreds of billions of dollars. I have 25 percent on $250 billion, and they subsidize it, Brian.
They’re manipulating their currency in order to pay for it. They’re manipulating their currency lower. Eventually that’s going to hurt them very badly. And they’re also giving money to these companies, but what’s happening is hundreds and even thousands of companies are now moving out of China so they don’t have to pay the tariffs.
No, eventually – you know, we had a deal with China and then they tried to negotiate the deal at the end, and I said, “sorry, we’re going to put tariffs on you. We’re not going to do it.” We had a – we had a great deal with China, and at the very end they came to us and they said, “no, we want to take off three points.” And I said, “you’re not going to take off.” And they were big points.
I said, “we’re not going to take off anything.” I believe they have to make the deal, but we’re going to see. You know, we’ve gone up in value $14 trillion or $15 trillion. They’ve gone probably $20 trillion. When I took over, they were going to, you know, really catch us on the economy. They were going to catch us very soon.
Now they are so far behind you wouldn’t believe it. So we’ve gone up a lot. The stock market’s up almost 50 percent since the election, and this is putting on tariffs, this is with a Fed that’s been –
– the interest rate’s too high, you know, and frankly it’s – he made a mistake and he –
– and the interest rates are too high, so we’re doing well. We’re doing well.
Well, I know they didn’t kill the top person because I saw a picture of him in the paper. I don’t know whether or not they did. They said he was unhappy with the result of the meeting, but that’s because I’m going to draw – you know, I’m – I want to have a deal. I could have made a deal there very easily, but I want to make a deal that means something.
You know, I could have walked out with a deal with North Korea, and I have a very good relationship. And just remember this, though, Brian. I’m in no rush. They’re not testing nuclear. They’re not testing anything. They sent some short-range –
– missiles out that everybody else does, too. They’re not testing –
Brian, everybody tries to – I know, but everybody tries to break sanctions, but the sanctions are hurting them badly. We never took the sanctions off. We have a good relationship. We’ll see what happens, Brian, but when I took over, there were nuclear tests, there were missiles going up, they were being sent – remember Guam and remember Japan, right over the middle of Japan and off – you don’t see that now.
You don’t see it now. We’re in a much different position and we do have a relationship, so that’s important. I’m in no rush. We’ll take it nice and easy. You know, the papers couldn’t believe when we had the first meeting. They couldn’t believe when we had the second. You know, we’d never had meetings. We’re going to end up in war.
If I wasn’t president, you would right now be in a major war with North Korea, I can tell you that. You would right now be in a major war and I don’t see that happening. It could happen, but I don’t see it happening.
I know, but you know what? It’s been a long time and it fits the plane better. You know, it’s a very different plane even though it’s a 747, and I like the concept of red, white, and blue and the classic, and I think it’s going to look much better actually. You know, the baby blue doesn’t fit with us. And people get used to something, but – and it was Jackie O., and that’s good, but we have our own Jackie O. today.
It’s called. Melania – Melania. We’ll call it Melania T. OK. Thank you.
And by the way, people love her. People love her.
She gets no credit from the media, but she gets credit from the people. When I go and speak in front of these big crowds – we have tremendous crowds – and so many people are holding up banners, you know, we love our first lady. A lot of them say for whatever they say, we love stilettos and, you know, the high heels.
The Times News said she walked in high heels to a... No, she likes to look elegant in the White House –
– but she had the sneakers – she’s carrying sneakers for when we get off. But you know, the people really do the job the first lady’s done.
I had such a great relationship and we were laughing and having fun. Her people told me she hasn’t had so much fun in 25 years. Now, then I got criticized for it because they said we were having too much fun. It doesn’t matter, but we have a great relationship and I had a great relationship with Charles, and honestly I have a very good relationship with a lot of the foreign leaders.
I think – I think what we’re doing – you know, we were taken advantage of by many, many countries. If you look at the NATO countries, $100 billion now they’ve agreed to pay. We’re paying nothing. $100 billion meaning of the interest. They’re going to pay $100 billion more toward NATO, toward protection. We were paying for NATO.
Now, I said, “folks, we’re protecting you. You’ve got to step up. You’ve got to pay,” and they’ve agreed to pay. And if you take a look at the last 15 years, it was terrible what was happening. Nobody was – some of them were totally delinquent as we used to say. They were totally delinquent. Hey, look, weve done a good job.
I think weve done a very good job. Foreign relations wise. But we do have some situations. We have Iran. North Korea continues. But Im telling you, if I werent president, you would be in a major war right now with North Korea.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
