Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Speaks at the Post|Inauguration Liberty Ball
That is what I call great talent. Thank you very much. Great talent. Thank you. Well, we did it. We began this journey, and they said we, we, and me... we didnt have a chance. But we knew we were gonna win and we won, and today we had a great day.
People that werent so nice to me were saying that we did a really good job today. They hated to do it, but they did it, and I respect that. I respect that.
But I have to say, the crowd was unbelievable today. You know, I looked at the rain, which just never came. You know, we finished the speech, went inside, it poured. Then we came outside, the helicopter scene was an incredible scene, an incredible scene. So beautiful. Like from a movie set, so beautiful. And then, and then, amazingly, it rained, and then we went out... its like God was looking down on us, I will tell you.
I want to thank all of our supporters. My number one supporter Melania, what she puts up with... now we really, we really did something thats so special, and this evening is so special, and this whole day and yesterday. So incredible.
So many people made such a difference. Vice President Mike Pence -- no more elect -- was incredible, and all of the... youre going to see things happening over the next few weeks. Oh youre gonna be so happy. Youre gonna be, because, you know, theyre very elegant people tonight. But there are also very political people, right. We want to see great things happen for our country. We want to make America great again, and we will do it. We will so.
Now, its a tremendous honor -- right again, and we will do, we will so now. Its a tremendous honor to have the first dance with Melania. Were gonna be joined by our Vice President. Were gonna be joined by some very wonderful, wonderful children as we go along. They happen to be my children, and Mikes children.
And I just want to again, I want to thank everybody. We always felt we were gonna do it. Its a movement like theyve never seen anywhere at any time, anywhere in the world.
This was a movement, and now the work begins. Now the work begins. Theres no games, right, no games, right? Were not playing games. The work begins.
