Donald Trump|Remarks Donald Trump Addresses Generation Next Forum at The White House|March 22, 2018
Nice group.
And losing.
Well, it was an honor, actually, doing it. We had a great news conference a little while ago. And its Section 301. Its a very complex pile of words. But, honestly, its very simple. And the simplicity is what makes it beautiful.
Look, weve lost, I mean, so many factories -- probably 60,000 factories. Nobody can even believe it. In fact, when I first heard the number, I said, That cant be real. We lost anywhere from 6  to 7 million jobs over a relatively short period of time. And its a whole different thing.
Now, I have to tell you, theyre coming back. Over the last year, we are bringing jobs back. As of about two weeks ago, 153 million jobs. Its the highest number of jobs weve ever had in our country. So it is coming back.
But were losing $375 billion with China. It could be $504 billion, depending on the way you count. A lot of different ways of counting. But no matter how you count, its bad.
And were doing something that will be the start of making trade with China more fair. Were so far down. And our Presidents, frankly -- our past Presidents should never have allowed this to happen. This has been many, many years. Its sort of like the Middle East.
How did that happen? And other things. How did all of these things happen? And North Korea -- how did this happen, where it got so bad? I shouldnt be the one negotiating North Korea. This should have been done years ago, Charlie. This should have been done by somebody before they were in the position that theyre in right now. But we got stuck with a lot of beauties, but well fix them.  Well fix them.
Okay, Charlie. And a couple of things: The individual mandate was knocked out by itself, that would be a big bill. Knocking out the -- . This is for Obamacare, where you have the privilege of paying a lot of money so that you dont have to buy bad healthcare. Okay? And we got it knocked out. That was a big thing.
And ANWR -- we have that approved, which is tremendous in terms of one of the great energy reservoirs in the world. And theyve been working on it. Reagan tried. Bush tried. Every President was trying to get it approved, and we got it approved. And that was part of our bill.
And then, of course, we have the tremendous tax cuts for people. And I guess if you think about it, millennials starting out, you have a tremendous advantage now over what you had. Youre going to pay less taxes. You have far more incentive. Youre going to have a lot more money left in your paycheck to spend. And thats part of the beauty. And were seeing it, and were seeing the numbers.
And, you know, we were at about 1.2 percent GDP. Weve now hit 3, and another 3, and a 3.2. And well see what this next quarter is. That could be a good quarter.
Our businesses are flourishing. Jobs are -- now, people are going to have choice. And thats choice of jobs. You know, before, if they got one job, theyd stay there even if they didnt like it because they had no alternative. Now, people are going out and theyre looking at five, six, seven jobs, and theyre making a choice. So that really works out.
But young people coming out of college, coming out of even high school. Were trying a very big push for vocational schools. I like the name vocational school, where somebody is good at fixing motors. I remember Id be in school, in lower schools, and Id be doing a test. And there would be somebody on my right who was not too good.
This was not a great student. This was not going to be Einstein, academically. Okay?  And, yet, that person could fix an engine or a motor so -- he was incredible. Blind folded. And, by the way, thats what he liked. And thats probably -- I dont know, we lost track -- but its probably what he ended up doing.
But he had a great ability at that -- far greater than me or far greater than other people. But hell never be a student, nor did he want that kind of learning, that kind of whatever you want to call it. So we need vocational schools. Now, they call them, a lot of times, community colleges. I dont think its an accurate definition.
Were having a lot of companies come into the United States. We need workers. And, by the way, illegal immigration -- which will be probably one part of a question but Ill give you the answer right now -- we want people to come into our country, but we want them to come in based on merit.
Because were going to need these people because we have tremendous numbers of companies coming in, whether its Chrysler leaving Mexico and coming into Michigan, or Foxconn -- you know, Foxconn is going to open up a tremendous place in Wisconsin, and were very proud of that because that was a deal that nobody even thought was happening or could happen.
Apple -- they make a lot of the Apple products -- Apple is taking $350 billion and theyre coming into our country with -- building here. And I said to Tim Cook a long time ago, Tim, its wonderful, Apple -- its nice -- but we want you to build the places here.
And he said, because of our tax, because of what weve done, theyre bringing in -- theyre actually bringing in about $240 billion, but theyre going to be investing $350 billion on new plants and a tremendous campus and lots of other things. So its very exciting, and very exciting for millennials. Very, very exciting for jobs.
Thats true. All-time low, black unemployment. Im very proud of that. And Hispanic unemployment, all-time low. Woman -- women unemployment, the lowest in 18 years. Were doing great. Were really doing great. And I really believe that -- I dont want to sound braggadocios --  -- but I think that theres never been an administration thats done as much as weve done in the first year.
You know, if you look at regulations -- forget about tax -- I think the cutting of the regulations may be as important or more important than even the tremendous tax cuts.
And that will be 22 for 1.
So, Charlie, its a great question. I think the numbers are actually much different than people think. I think we have a lot of support. If they have one campus or two campuses that we know what they are, it gets all the publicity.
We have campuses where you have a vast majority of people that are, perhaps, like many of the people in this room -- you could call it conservative, you call it whatever you want -- but theyre people that want free speech. If you look at whats going on with free speech, with the super left, with Antifa, with all of these characters -- Ill tell you what, they get a lot of publicity.
But you go to the real campuses and you go all over the country or you go out to the Middle-West, you go out even to the coast in many cases, we have a tremendous support. I would say we have majority support. I think its highly overblown. Highly overblown.
Dont run for President.
You know, I was talking to Mercedes and Sarah walking off -- you know, the Oval Office is right across the street -- and I said, all my life Ive gotten really -- you know, look, we all get, every once and a while, a knock -- but I got the greatest publicity. I was getting such great -- until I ran for office.
But its been -- people get it. People really do get it. There is a lot of fake news out there. Nobody had any idea. And, you know, Im actually proud of the fact that I exposed it, to a large extent. Because we exposed it.  Its something -- its an achievement.
And you have some great news. And you know, when I say, fake, I dont mean everybody. Not every one of those many people back there. I just say we have shown something that a lot of people didnt really understand. If you look at approval rating, their approval rating is -- sorry, folks -- its down the tubes.  Because people have found out how dishonest it is. However, you have some great, great reporters. You have some great people in the press, people that I have tremendous respect for. And it is that way, also. And thats very important. And its also reassuring to know that, you know, thats the fact.
Well, I think a lot of the polls are not real too, because there were -- a couple of them got us right, but a lot of them didnt. And lot of them purposely didnt, because, you know, they set an expectation when they give you a certain poll. People say, Oh, gee, I think Im not going to vote. I love Trump but hes not going to be able to make. So theyll go to a movie and theyll say, Well go home and well watch later. And they go home and they watch and they say, Gee, if only we voted. But they really voted. In 2016, they came out and they voted. There was nobody that stayed home.
And as you know, the results were far greater than the polls. Now, a lot of people just dont want to talk about it. They say, you know, we love Trump but we dont have to talk about it. We love -- what do we love? We love a strong military. We like low taxes. We like all of the things that are happening now, jobs, tremendous cutting in regulation. All of the things that you see happening right now, they like that. They dont have to talk about it.
They went into the booth -- and you know, look, this was the big story. People came out that nobody knew existed. And the Democrats are looking for those people right now.
I got a tremendous number of people from the Obama administration, where they voted for Obama -- President Obama -- they voted for him and they voted for me. They voted for Bernie Sanders -- a lot of people -- and I think because he was right about trade. The difference is I know how to fix the problem, not just talk about it. But he was right and thats what were doing. Thats why we had the 301 meeting today on China.
But Bernie Sanders was very strong on saying that were getting ripped off on trade. He happened to be right. And I got a lot of Sanders voters. Who would think that? You know, you would think I would have gotten virtually none, but many of them came -- that was a big part of the difference between Hillary Clinton and myself.
So we have a tremendous amount of support. And its sort of an interesting thing: Sometimes they say, You add nine. Whatever Trumps poll number is, add nine. People dont want to talk about it. They dont want to be bothered. But when they get into the voting booth, they say, Vote Trump.
You know, we gave a speech the other night in Pennsylvania for a very nice guy, Rick Saccone. And it was -- the level of love in that room was incredible. We were in Pensacola, Florida a couple of weeks ago. The place was just rocking. Now, I dont know if its transferable. They say a lot of its not transferable. They may like me. They may vote for me. Theyre all saying Im going to do great in 2020. I mean, you know, lets see what happens, right?
But I dont -- they dont know if its transferable. I hope its transferable because we have to do our agenda. We have to win in 18. We have to get the agenda. We need more Republicans.
We could also, by the way, get rid of the filibuster situation going on in the Senate. I feel very strongly about that. It would make life a lot easy -- easier. But you look at some of the votes -- we would get so many more votes -- if you could work that with youth -- get rid of it, because certain senators just want to keep it. But it makes things a little bit tougher.
But I will say, we need more Republicans and were going to get your taxes -- you know, I dont know I you know but were -- I was with Kevin Brady the other day. Were starting a phase two on tax cuts. Were going to get more tax cuts and were going to be very focused again on the middle class. Were going to get a phase-two tax cut because it worked so well. Nobody thought it would be like this. It worked so -- the word crumbs is going to be like the word deplorable, I think, for Hillary.
Hey, Charlie, when she said the word -- I was watching that speech, and I thought it was, you know, not very nice, but I didnt see it that bad. And the next day, Im at a speech and women are coming in, Im a deplorable. The husband, Im a deplorable. And I say, Whats going on? That word really -- and it was a basic --
It was a -- thats right. She actually said deplorable and irredeemable. Irredeemable is probably worse.
Well, the one she did last week wasnt too good either -- that the woman goes and asks the husband, the son, and the male boss for approval to vote for Trump. That was not too good.  That was not too good.
This is not good.
Yeah, Charlie, so were going to be putting $6 billion over a fairly short period of time into the opioid crisis. Its a crisis. And you have to include in that the drug crisis, period. Drugs are coming across the southern border and coming all over. Thats why we will have the wall. We have $1.6 billion toward the wall, and fixing up bad walls that are already up and, you know, building them new and rebuilding them. And a lot of work being done.
You know, certain communities, believe it or not, like in San Diego, they want a wall. Nobody likes to talk about that. In fact, I said, Dont build a wall there. Theyre all wanting it. And Jerry Brown, whos doing a terrible job as governor, but you know.
No, if you like high taxes and lots of other -- and crime -- thats your guy.  But they go and they talk so much about the wall. But in San Diego, as you know, theres a long stretch that is demanding the wall. So I said, okay -- they were ready to start. I said, Dont build it. Well wait until we get everything approved. Because theyre having a lot of pressure. They want the wall.
Look, we have to stop the drugs from coming in. So, opioids are a big problem. Were going to be probably -- were developing potential litigation to be suing some of these companies. If we could only do a painkiller thats not so addictive. This stuff is brutal. You have a broken arm, you go to the hospital, youre there for a few days; you come out, your arm is fixed and now youre a drug addict. And we got to do something about it. Its so incredibly addictive and so quickly. And we are working here with research money. Were working, and very strongly, on coming up with painkillers that arent so addictive, and maybe not addictive at all. And I think that will be a big thing.
The other thing we have to do, in terms of the drug problem, is we have to be very tough on sentences. And, you know, a drug dealer will kill sometimes more than 2,000 people. Sometimes much more than that. Ruin families, ruin lives. And they get caught; theyll get 30 days in jail. They get a fine. They wont even get jail. Theyll get a year in jail. And yet, if they kill somebody -- if they shoot somebody, if they get into a fight and somebody dies, they put them in jail for life or they give them the death penalty.
But these people kill thousands of people over the course of their lives through drugs. So were going to have to get much, much tougher in terms of penalty. And if you want to stop it -- if you look at certain countries where they have, as an example, the death penalty, and say, Hows your drug problem? And they will tell you, We dont have much of a drug problem.
So I sort of -- theres nothing to laugh about, nothing to smile about. But when we have these Blue Ribbon committees composed of some very nice people, many of whom are in the office -- Alex and Alex. We have a double Alex, and Ivanka. And well set up a nice -- and Kellyanne. Has anybody ever heard of Kellyanne? Huh?
Shes become -- I told Ivanka this morning, you can take Kellyanne and put her right into the heart of the battle to somebody who the level of hatred back there is so incredible.  Seven in the morning, the cameras are on, the lights are on, and shes there, and shell just take them on. You know, great courage. Really great courage. A lot of people say, Please, please.
You know, Charlie -- its true. A lot of people say, Please, Mr. President. Please dont put me in there. Shell say, Where do you want me to go? Right? Its all words. Its all -- if you think about it. And heres another great warrior right here. Right, Ivanka? You are a great warrior.
Really is great.
