Donald Trump|Interview: John Dickerson Interviews Donald Trump on CBS Face the Nation|April 30, 2017
Well, I didnt say, "Dont test a missile." Hes going to have to do what he has to do. But he understands were not going to be very happy. And I will tell you, a man that Ive gotten to like and respect, the president of China, President Xi, I believe, has been putting pressure on him also. But so far, perhaps nothings happened and perhaps it has. This was a small missile. This was not a big missile. This was not a nuclear test, which he was expected to do three days ago. Well see what happens.
I would not be happy. If he does a nuclear test, I will not be happy. And I can tell you also, I dont believe that the president of China, who is a very respected man, will be happy either.
I dont know. I mean, well see.
You can never be sure of anything, can you? But I developed a very good relationship. I dont think they want to see a destabilized North Korea. I dont think they want to see it. They certainly dont want to see nuclear on -- from their neighbor. They havent liked it for a long time. But well have to see what happens.
The relationship I have with China, its been already acclaimed as being something very special, something very different than weve ever had. But again, you know, well find out whether or not President Xi is able to affect change.
I hope he is.
Well, Id rather not discuss it. But perhaps theyre just not very good missiles. But eventually, hell have good missiles.
I just dont want to discuss it. And I think you know me very well, where youve asked me many times over the last couple of years about military. I said, "We shouldnt be announcing were going into Mosul." I said, "We shouldnt be announcing all our moves." It is a chess game. I just dont want people to know what my thinking is. So eventually, he will have a better delivery system. And if that happens, we cant allow it to happen.
I have -- I really, you know, have no comment on him. People are saying, "Is he sane?" I have no idea. I can tell you this, and a lot of people dont like when I say it, but he was a young man of 26 or 27 when he took over from his father, when his father died. Hes dealing with obviously very tough people, in particular the generals and others.
And at a very young age, he was able to assume power. A lot of people, Im sure, tried to take that power away, whether it was his uncle or anybody else. And he was able to do it. So obviously, hes a pretty smart cookie. But we have a situation that we just cannot let -- we cannot let whats been going on for a long period of years continue. And frankly, this shouldve been done and taken care of by the Obama administration. Shouldve been taken care of by the Bush administration. Shouldve been taken care of by Clinton.
I think I can agree with that. I love doing it. Im, you know, thoroughly enjoying it. Its always a challenge, like life itself is a challenge. But its something that I really love and I think Ive done a very good job at it.
Well, its a tough job. But Ive had a lot of tough jobs. Ive had things that were tougher, although Ill let you know that better at the end of eight years. Perhaps eight years. Hopefully, eight years. But Ill let you know later on. I think weve done very well with foreign policy. I think weve done very, very well with relationships with other leaders.
I think were doing great on trade deals. Its set. And I think were doing well. I mean, our country is being out-traded at every single point. Were losing tremendous amounts of money on trade. And I think actually, Ive been very consistent. You know, its very funny when the fake media goes out, you know, which we call the mainstream media which sometimes, I must say, is you.
Well, your show. I love your show. I call it Deface the Nation. But, you know, your show is sometimes not exactly correct. But when they talk about currency manipulation, and I did say I would call China, if they were, a currency manipulator, early in my tenure. And then I get there. Number one, they -- as soon as I got elected, they stopped. Theyre not -- its not going down anymore, their currency.
No.
No, not true to the extent that were talking about. Much more important than that, as to when, but, you know, it did stop. And I was talking about it all during the campaign. And I would say that I was the one that got them to stop. But forget that.
He is working with us--
I think so, during the campaign I talked about.
No, they were doing it before. I mean, there was no question. I mean, they were absolute currency manipulators before. But somebody said, "Oh, you didnt call him a currency manipulator." Now, you and I are just talking about how hes working -- I believe that President Xi is working to try and resolve a very big problem, for China also.
And thats North Korea. Can you imagine if I say, "Hey, by the way, how are you doing with North Korea? Also, were going to announce that youre a currency manipulator tomorrow." So the mainstream media never talks about that. They never say that. And thats, you know, unfortunate. Its just--
--its just one of many things, John.
No. I think that, frankly, North Korea is maybe more important than trade. Trade is very important. But massive warfare with millions, potentially millions of people being killed? That, as we would say, trumps trade.
Okay? You understand what Im saying. And if I can use trade as a method to get China, because I happen to think that China does have reasonably good powers over North Korea. Now, maybe not, you know, ultimate, but pretty good powers. Now, if China can help us with North Korea and can solve that problem--
--thats worth making not as good a trade deal for the United States, excuse me, right?
Well, one of the things that Ive learned is how dishonest the media is, really. Ive done things that are I think very good. Ive set great foundations with foreign leaders. We have you know -- NAFTA, as you know, I was going to terminate it, but I got a very nice call from a man I like, the president of Mexico.
I got a very nice call from Justin Trudeau, the prime minister of Canada. And they said please would you rather than terminating NAFTA -- I was all set to do it. In fact, I was going to do it today. I was going to do as were sitting here. I wouldve had to delay you. I was going to do it today. I was going to terminate NAFTA. But they called up and they said, "Would you negotiate?" And I said, "Yes, I will negotiate."
No, no, but the media didnt cover it that way. The media said, oh, I didnt terminate NAFTA.
First of all, if you look at my statements, I said--
If Im not able to renegotiate NAFTA, I will terminate NAFTA. Well, Ill make that statement right now.
If Im not able to renegotiate NAFTA, we will terminate NAFTA.
Okay.
No, no, Im just saying--
--it was one of my disappointments.
Well, I think things generally tend to go a little bit slower than youd like them to go.
Just a system. Its just a very, very bureaucratic system. I think the rules in Congress and in particular the rules in the Senate are unbelievably archaic and slow moving. And in many cases, unfair. In many cases, youre forced to make deals that are not the deal youd make. Youd make a much different kind of a deal.
Youre forced into situations that you hate to be forced into. I also learned, and this is very sad, because we have a country that we have to take care of. The Democrats have been totally obstructionist. Chuck Schumer has turned out to be a bad leader. Hes a bad leader for the country. And the Democrats are extremely obstructionist.
All they do is obstruct. All they do is delay. Even our Supreme Court justice, as you know, who I think is going to be outstanding, Justice Gorsuch. I think that it was disgraceful the way they handled that. But, you know, I still have people, Im waiting for them to be approved. Our chief trade negotiator. We cant get these people through.
They are obstructionists. And you know what thats hurting? Its hurting the country.
Excuse me, the health care bill is going to help my supporters.
Otherwise, Im not going to sign it. Im not going to do it.
Well, thats what I just said.
But let me--
Let me just tell you.
Pre-existing conditions are in the bill. And I just watched another network than yours, and they were saying, "Pre-existing is not covered." Pre-existing conditions are in the bill. And I mandate it. I said, "Has to be."
We have, were going to have lower premiums. And before you start there, let me just tell you something. Obamacare is dead. Obamacare right now, all the insurance companies are fleeing. Places like Tennessee have already lost half of their state with the insurance companies. Theyre all going. Obamacare, John, is dead. Okay, because were being -- were being compared to Obamacare. Just, so. Obamacare doesnt work--
One thing. No, no, its important. Ive got to compare it.
But you were saying about Obamacare.
With Obamacare--
--the premiums are too high. The deductibles are through the roof, so you never get to use it. But more importantly, its dead.
But that was a long time ago, John.
Totally fixed.
How? Weve made many changes to the bill. You know, this bill is--
--very much different than it was three weeks ago.
The bill--
Let me explain. Let me explain it to you.
This bill is much different than it was a little while ago, okay? This bill has evolved. And we didnt have a failure on the bill. You know, it was reported like a failure. Now, the one thing I wouldnt have done again is put a timeline. Thats why on the second iteration, I didnt put a timeline.
But we have now pre-existing conditions in the bill. We have -- weve set up a pool for the pre-existing conditions so that the premiums can be allowed to fall. Were taking across all of the borders or the lines so that insurance companies can compete--
--nationwide.
Of course, its in.
Its in the second phase.
Its called phase one, phase two. And thats, in effect, second phase, which will get approved, which will quickly get approved.
But let me just explain something. There will be such competition. Right now, theres no competition. There will be such competition by insurance companies so that they can get health care and the people taking care of health care.
The other thing were going to have is groups. Groups of people can negotiate. Whats going to happen is the competition is going to drive down the premiums. In my opinion, much, much more than people understand.
No, there were things in the other bill, the first version, which were not as good.
But when I watch some of the news reports, which are so unfair, and they say we dont cover pre-existing conditions, we cover it beautifully.
Ill tell you who doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. Obamacare. You know why? Its dead.
Its not going to be here.
Sure, in one of the fixes. And theyre changing it--
--and changing.
Of course.
John, this has evolved over a period of three or four weeks. Now, we really have a good bill. I think they could have voted on Friday. I said, "Just relax. Dont worry about this phony 100 day thing. Just relax. Take it easy. Take your time. Get the good vote and make it perfect."
Most importantly, were going to drive down premiums. Were going to drive down deductibles because right now, deductibles are so high, you never -- unless youre going to die a long, hard death, you never can get to use your health care--
--because the deductibles are so high.
Pre-existing is going to be in there and were also--
--going to create pools.
And pools are going to take care of the pre-existing.
No, but the states--
--are also going to have a lot to do with it because we ultimately want to get it back down to the states.
Look, because if you hurt your knee, honestly, Id rather have the federal government focused on North Korea, focused on other things, than your knee, okay? Or than your back, as important as your back is. I would much rather see the federal government focused on other things--
--bigger things. Now, the state is going to be in a much better position to take care, because its smaller.
We actually--
--we actually have, well, forget about unaffordable. Whats unaffordable is Obamacare, John.
We actually have -- we actually have a clause that guarantees.
We have a specific clause--
--that guarantees.
Go ahead.
Well, not only growth. Its going to be made up by better trade deals. Its going to be made up--
--by many different, reciprocal tax. As an example, we have countries where if we make a product and we send it to that country, they charge us 100% tax. If they make the same product and send it to us, we charge them nothing. You think thats smart? Its not.
Were going to come up with reciprocal taxes and lots of other things on those countries. But I view that more in trade. Were also going to fix all of our trade deals. Were going to have a very wealthy country again.
Always.
Youre not going to have to do it.
Youre not going to have to do it. Im just telling you we are--
I would much prefer them not to do that, thats right.
Okay, then let me more clear. Im not going to touch it, because I said it. Now, waste, fraud and abuse, Im going to touch. If theres something in Medicare thats been abused, I will touch that. There are certain things, as you know, that have been absolutely abused. There are certain provisions in Medicare that are horrible and abusive and theres been terrible things happening. So that kind of stuff, I will absolutely touch.
But the concept of Medicare, Im not touching.
Waste, fraud and abuse.
And if there are things within Medicare that are being abused, I will touch that also.
Thats right. Thats what it is. But heres what we do. Were going to grow. The numbers just came out for Obamas last year. 1.6 GDP. That means nothing. Thats, like, 1% GDP. So I have gotten to know as you know, I really get along with a lot of other countries. So I talk to the heads of countries. "How are you doing?" "Not well, not well." "Why?" "GDP is 8%. GDP is 9%. We are doing poorly." GDP -- Our GDP is, like, 1%.
Well, I never spoke to him about it. Honestly, hes never asked me about it. I said, number one, Im under audit. Right now, Im under audit. After the audit is complete. Its a routine audit, but I have a very big tax return. Youve seen the pictures. My tax return is probably higher than that from the floor. When you look at other peoples tax return, even other wealthy people, their tax return is this big. My tax return is this high.
Im under routine--
--audit. And I think its a very unfair thing because I have been under audit almost, like, since I became famous, okay?
Not just political. I mean, I have been under audit, Ill bet you 12 or 13 or 14 years in a row. Now, I have friends that are wealthy people.
Theyve never been audited.
And I think its very unfair.
It could happen soon. I dont know. I mean, I think--
--its pretty routine, to be honest with you. But then Ill make a decision.
Oh, I dont know who did that. I mean, I dont care who did that. These are the people, you know, the great obstructionists.
Look where they are. Look where the Democrats have ended up. Hey, John, they had everything going. Now they dont have the presidency, they dont have the House, they dont have the Senate, and Schumers going around making a fool out of himself.
The concept of Russia with respect to us is a total phony story.
Of course, its a total phony story. In fact, I just heard where General Flynn got his clearance from the Obama administration.
Excuse me. I didnt realize this, when he went to Russia, it was 2015 and he was on the Obama clearance. When General Flynn came to us, as you now know, he already had the highest clearance you can have. I think the same clearance as the president of the United States would have. He had this really high clearance. And, by the way, theyre so devastated because this only came up two days ago.
Why wasnt this reported months ago?
But I watched one of your other competitors, and they were devastated--
--by this news, because you know what? That kills them. Thats the end of that subject.
That, I dont know. I dont know.
Well, I have a problem. You have Podesta, who, by the way, I understand has a company with his brother in Russia. Hillarys husband makes speeches in Russia. Hillary did a uranium deal with Russia. Nobody ever talks about that. But I dont know--
--because the FBI was not allowed by Podesta to go in and check all of the records on their servers and everything else that you would normally have to check. Thats number one.
Number two, knowing something about hacking, if you dont catch a hacker, okay, in the act, its very hard to say who did the hacking. With that being said, Ill go along with Russia. Couldve been China, couldve been a lot of different groups.
But it couldve--
No. We have to find out what happened. Id love to find out what happened.
I can tell you one thing. Had nothing to do with us. Had nothing to do with this, and everyone knows it. And by the way, even my enemies on your show said, "We havent found anything that the Trump campaign did wrong."
Do you agree with that?
Im okay with it.
Honestly, John, Im okay. But why didnt Podesta and the Democrats, why didnt they allow the FBI to eject the server? They hired some company who somebody said some pretty bad things about, to go and check their server and give the information. So they were hacked. Why didnt they -- the Democrats allow the FBI? They told the FBI, "We are not going to allow you to do it." Why did they do that? Why did they do that, John? Why wouldnt they let the FBI go in and check? And by the way, why didnt the FBI complain about it?
