Donald Trump|Interview: Donald Trump With Sarah Westwood of the Washington Examiner|April 26, 2017
I heard that, I heard that. Yeah, no thats good. I mean, I guess its an indication of certain things. But, I think weve created some amazing, weve done some amazing things, and I think weve set some incredible foundations going onward, with relationships, with other countries, et cetera, et cetera.
Well I always understood that with DACA, we need special heart. We need to understand the Ñ we have to understand the other side of that equation, and I do understand that side, and I am somebody with a lot of heart and you know, youve heard what I said. Just, relax and lets let it all play out. Because I think everyones going to be happy in the end. I will say that were doing an amazing job at the border, and were going to need the help of the wall, because we want to stop human trafficking, we want to stop drugs, we want to stop so many other things that the wall could be so helpful with.
So, you know, the Democrats, many of them, and most of them, including President Obama, including Schumer, including a lot of people, you know, they approved the 2006 version of the wall, and they understand its a good thing, but they feel that politically, they want to fight. And thats OK, I think were gonna Ñ we will build the wall. The wall will be built. It has to be built if were going to continue this incredible job were doing on national security and at the border. But, a lot of good things are happening. Really good things. Were very proud of the job weve done.
Sure, we have some. Many have Ñ many are now gone. And, you know, there are some cases where like people are saying, were being obstructed by the Democrats, very much so. And also, we dont need so many people coming to work. You know, one of the things Ñ I dont know if you say this, Sean Ñ but when they say about putting people in, there are so many jobs in Washington, we dont want so many jobs. You dont need all of those people. And even me, I look at staffing, and I look at the numbers of people, and many of the people that they complain dont have, you know, where certain positions arent filled, in many cases, you dont need those positions to be filled.
You know, a good example is Rex over at State Ñ got so many people, and he likes to do things himself, and he likes to take meetings himself, he doesnt necessarily need the kind of numbers that youre talking about. And its also because of the total obstruction of having people going in. Its very, very sad to see. Youd think the Democrats would help because they want to see this, you know, move along nicely, but youve seen how long it took to get your various Cabinet positions filled. Its a record, it was a record. So they have one power, and thats the power to obstruct, and theyre using it to the maximum, whether its a Supreme Court judge or whether its Cabinet members or whether its people to fill seats but we dont want to Ñ or fill vacancies. But we dont want to fill all of the vacancies, we wont fill all of the vacancies. We dont need so many of these people.
Well, at the right time. But were going to have an economy Ñ you know, the numbers just came out on the GDP for last year which were abysmal. 1.6 percent. Which is the lowest in five years. And, you know, if China does 7 percent, they consider it terrible. You have big countries in this world, major countries in this world, if they do 7, 8 or 9 percent theyre not very happy, and here we are, were a country at one percent and people dont even write about it. I mean, were going Ñ this country is going Ñ we have such great potential. We have such tremendous potential.
But when you look at the GDP numbers, to me, thats a big story, because that means that were essentially, you know, thats after, thats the lowest in five years. And five years ago was a very bad time, a very bad time. So were going to have a very big day today, I think youre going to see, youll be there? 1 oclock, is it 1 oclock, Sean?
At 1:30, with the tax proposal. I think youre going to find it very good.
Absolutely I have. There are many people that want to break up the 9th Circuit. Its outrageous. And you know, you talk about judge shopping Ñ you saw today I mentioned that?
But you see judge shopping, or whats gone on with these people, they immediately run to the 9th Circuit. Its got close to an 80 percent reversal period, and whats going on in the 9th Circuit is a shame. And hopefully, they will, in the 9th Circuit, do whats right both on the ban and Ñ you know we had the ban?
Everybody immediately runs to the 9th Circuit. And we have a big country. We have lots of other locations. But they immediately run to the 9th Circuit. Because they know thats like, semi-automatic. And its very, very sad to see it happening. And the language could not be any clearer. I mean, the language on the ban, it reads so easy that a reasonably good student in the first grade will fully understand it.
And they dont even mention the words in their rejection on the ban. And the same thing with this. I mean, when you have people that are being enabled to commit crime. And in San Francisco, when you look at Kate Steinle, being shot and here is the court, you know, right in that same general area. But when you look at a Kate Steinle, when you look at so many other things. No, sanctuary cities have been very, very dangerous, very, very bad. And, you know, weve done a great job on law enforcement, weve done a great job at the border. And all of our most talented people say sanctuary cities are a disaster.
In terms of safety.
I do like that, yes. Well, I mean, its great when everybody can agree. Then you think somethings so good that it can Ñ no, but I like having dissent. If its a close topic.
Thats true. Well, Ive heard them all. And youre right, you have all three: you have pull out, renegotiate, stay in. But the one thing everybody agrees to is that we are being, as usual, we are paying an inordinate share beyond any bounds of reasonableness, and other countries are not. We got taken to the cleaners financially. So were going to be making a decision, I would say, over the next two weeks on that.
But when were paying massive amounts of money and other major countries are paying nothing, and when were agreeing to do certain things and other major countries are not agreeing to do those things, then it becomes unfair, and it becomes bad for our companies and becomes bad for us competitively, and I dont want to see that happen either, You know, Im a big believer in the environment. And Im a tremendous believer in clean water, clean air, and Ive won environmental awards. But it also has to be fair. It cant put you at an economic disadvantage, or a disadvantage in other ways.
So, Ill be making a decision Ñ were going to have meetings on that, actually, next week Ñ and Ill be making a decision on that very soon. But the one thing all of the groups that you mentioned Ñ and I do, I have all three groups Ñ the one thing all of those groups do agree on is that we are paying disproportionately by a factor thats so high that its not comprehensible.
The Russia is a faux story. Its made up. It is, you know, nobody asks Hillary Clinton why her husband was over making speeches in Russia. Nobody asks John Podesta about the company that he has with his brother in Russia. Nobody asks John Podesta why he didnt let the FBI look at his server, why did they hire another company to look at the server. And somebody had mentioned Ñ and this may be incorrect Ñ a company thats owned by somebody from the Ukraine. Youve heard that, I assume youve heard that? But John Podesta and his brother, why arent they asking about that?
The Russia story is a faux story. And it started, really, before the election was over, before November 8th. And it was at a very low level, and it never picked up any steam until after the election because the Democrats are using that faux Ñ or fake Ñ Russia story in order to make themselves feel better for losing an election thats very hard for a Democrat to lose. Because its very hard for Democrats to lose in the Electoral College. The Electoral College is a very, very hard thing for the Republicans to win because you have to run all the way up the East Coast.
You have to win Florida, you have to win South Carolina, North Carolina, you have to win Pennsylvania, you have to win all the way up, and then you have to win in the Midwest and you have to win places that Ñ you know you win Michigan, you win Wisconsin, you win Ohio and Iowa. Because they start off with such a tremendous advantage that its very very hard for a Republican to win. So they lost an election, and they use the Russia story as a way Ñ as best they can Ñ as a way of justifying how they lost the election. Its a fake story. The fake media keeps putting it on. The same media, its all the same media, that keep putting it on. And frankly, they should be ashamed of themselves.
Well I think we have. Weve given everything we can to the committees and the committees can come in and see whatever they want. And we look forward to the reports. And nobody said I was involved in any form and nobody said were Ñ in fact, Ive actually seen many people, almost everybody, in fact even people that are very anti-Trump, said there is no evidence.
And there isnt. And the reason theres no evidence  because its a faux story. Its a fake story that was made up as a justification for how the Democrats, its really an excuse for how the Democrats lost an election that should have never been lost because they should never lose the Electoral College. Thats all that story is. Its a fake story.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
No Ñ
OK, well all of those things. I think were gonna do all of those things. And I think were very close to getting healthcare. And I never stopped, it wasnt like phase one, phase two. Dont forget, Obamacare took 17 months to get, and its a disaster. And without subsidy, you know, without my paying the insurance companies a fortune, which frankly has to be approved by Congress Ñ what Obama was doing was illegal, because as you know the court decision said you have to get it approved by Congress.
He signed without going to Congress, so without going to Congress, Obamacare is gone. Premiums have gone through the roof, theyve skyrocketed. Its a disaster. We started, two months ago, really started Ñ focused Ñ two months ago on healthcare. And I think were very close. I dont know that well do it over the next two days, but I think were very close.
The Republicans have really come together and the reason that theyve come together, and a lot of them for different reasons, because you have a pretty big sphere of Republicans, but theyre all good people. Some want to see the lower premiums, some want to see just better healthcare, its different people feeling different ways. Im one of the ones that wants to see great healthcare at a much lower price.
So were going to have great competition, which you dont have right now. I mean, you have the insurance companies Ñ I was in Tennessee, the insurance companies pulled out of half the state, the other half theyre going to lose very soon. That means they have no insurance companies. Kentucky was a disaster, where the insurance companies are on their last legs in terms of staying. Theyre going to leave. And so many other places. So you really dont have Obamacare, because you have insurance companies that are all pulling out. So when people talk about Obamacare, its really fiction.
The other thing is that, when you talk about the billions and billions and dollars that we have to pour into insurance companies in order to keep it alive, well that money has to be approved by Congress. It was never approved. I mean, you could make the case that Obamacare was never approved, because this money was never, it was never approved to be paid. It has to be approved by Congress. You understand what I mean by that?
Well what I want to do is, I want to see what happens with our bill first. Because were going to have great healthcare at a lower cost. Were going to have premiums coming down, and theyll really start tumbling down in two years, they will start tumbling, because the insurance companies will be so competitive. And youll have health plans, youll have healthcare plans, that youve never even Ñ I know a lot about healthcare, you know a lot about healthcare, theyll come up with plans that youve never even heard about that will be so good.
Theyll have a lot of competition, theyll have a lot of new ideas that people dont even think about today. And itll be a beautiful thing. So I really have to see what happens over the next couple of days or maybe weeks with respect to our plan before I make that decision.
Well you know, I just had the meeting, Antiquities, you saw that?
Freed up 135 million acres.
Right? The Bears Ears. Thats one of the things we did today, its incredible for a certain part of the country. So I think the thing thats interesting is that, and really important: Ive passed a lot of legislative bills that people dont even know about. Whether its the VA and choice and whether its a lot of different things, a lot of bills weve passed, including relating to the Internet, so we believe well have 32 legislative Ñ this is not executive orders Ñ this is legislative bills passed. And nobody knew that.
Ive said to reporters, some of whom are very anti-Trump, or conservative, or however you want to call it, that weve passed 28 and we think well have 32 by the time Saturday rolls around. And again, thats a standard thats really an artificial standard, the whole 100 day thing. Because I think what Ive done best is set foundations for the future, including with foreign countries, including with China and Japan and many, many countries that we have great relationships with.
I think we have some incredible foundations that have been built over the last Ñ Germany Ñ a lot of great foundations Ñ the U.K. But weve passed 28 legislative bills and thatll be 32 by the time Saturday night rolls along. And nobody had any idea. They had no idea. They said I passed Ñ I saw on one of the networks that covers us extremely incorrectly and unfairly, they actually said none. And Im not even sure they knew.
I dont think they knew. I dont think they did it to be vicious, I just dont think they knew. So weve got from 28 to 32 legislative bills that have been signed by me and passed. That probably even surprises you, when you hear that number. Then on top of that weve done the executive orders, weve freed up the economy, the work on regulation is unprecedented, what weve done on regulation. And I will tell you on legislative Ñ which people said, oh well hes done nothing legislatively, they didnt know, because we didnt make a big deal out of it, but weve done a great job. Not since Harry Truman has anybody done so much. Thats a long time ago.
And then of course you always have what I think will go down as one of the great choices in history on the Supreme Court of the United States, Justice Gorsuch. We didnt just nominate him, we had him approved. And that was Ñ I thought we were in our own category, but that also took place in 1881. 1881, that happened also within the first 100 days. But you know, I mean theres never really been anything like this.
So I think weve done more than perhaps any president in the first 100 days. But I dont want to set the 100 days as a standard Ñ I think even more importantly, I think that weve established foundations for the next, almost eight years.
Id give us an A. I would say communication would be a little bit less than an A because I dont think weve gotten the word out what weve done because I think were so busy getting it done that were not talking about it. But I would give the administration, on the big picture, an A. I would say we havent communicated the word out, so Id give us a little bit less than that, but one of the reasons we havent done that is, were too busy working.
No, Seans doing great. Look, Sean is being attacked viciously by people because, you know, thats Ñ if Sean were a liberal Democrat, theyd be saying hes the greatest person ever to live. But Seans doing a good job, excellent job. And Sean would agree with me. I think a lot of the media doesnt want us to get the word out.
