Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Tampa, FL|June 6, 2016
Hello, Tampa. Great. Unbelievable. Well I want to start by thanking, you know, Rick. Hes done an amazing job as your governor. Hes done an amazing job, and hes a great guy. And I want to thank Rick. And I want to thank Pam. She has been an incredible source of inspiration for everybody in this room. So I want to thank Pam, and Rick, and everybody else thats been here.
And the support that weve had in Florida has been incredible. Very important to state. No. 1, Im here. Im always here. I have a lot of places in Florida. We have a lot of employees. We pay a lot of money out to the employees. They have great health care. They have great education for their families. And Im very happy.
So I love being with you this morning. Very special. Thank you. You know, its a little bit different world. Im just watching the television, the news. And in France, they have all sorts of problems. They have this massive soccer tournament. They dont know whether or not they can even hold it. Theyre absolutely petrified about radical Islamic terrorism coming up, and they dont know what to do. Should we hold it, should we not hold it? The police are afraid.
We got to get tough folks. Weve got to get tough. Weve got to get smart. We got to be vigilant. Weve got to take care of people. We dont want division. But weve got to be smart. I mean, you cant have this happening. This is all over the world right now. In our country right now, were allowing thousands of people, thousands upon thousands of people, to come into our country, and we have no idea who the hell they are.
We have no idea. Theyre coming in. From the migration. And you look at the migration, and I look at the migration, and I say, how come theres so many young, strong men? Why dont they have so many women? Why dont they have so many children? And I look, and I say, whats going on? Whats going on? And were allowing people to come in. Theres no documentation.
Theres no paperwork. We dont know who they are, where they come from. We dont know, is it Syria? Is it something else? Is it ISIS maybe? You know the story of the Trojan horse. This could be the ultimate Trojan Horse, folks. These are smart people. They know what theyre doing. We have no leadership. We have a president thats, as far as Im concerned, hes incompetent.
And now, hes going to be campaigning for Crooked Hillary Clinton. OK. Hes going to be campaigning. So I look at whats going on. I see whats happening. And Ive had a lot of vision. Ive had some pretty good vision. I said dont go into Iraq. Youre going to destabilize the Middle East. They went into Iraq.
And I said it right from the beginning, remember that. They said, well, maybe in 19, whatever. Let me tell you, I was early, and I was really -- I was from the beginning, because it was going to destabilize the Middle East. And then they say, oh, Donald Trump is very tough. Hes got a tough temperament. Hes got a tough tone.
We need a tough tone now, folks. We need a tough tone. We need it. Weve got a bunch of lightweights. You know, Hillary Clinton was saying the other day, temperament. Thats her whole thing, temperament, you know. No. 1, I built an unbelievable company, a great company. I filed papers with federal election.
You dont build companies like that unless you have the right temperament, believe me. But Hillary Clinton, they just came out with a book, a secret service agent was with her for a long time, said shes a total mess. A mess. Shes not qualified to be president. You know who said that? Bernie Sanders said that Hillary Clinton is not qualified to be president.
And he said it because she has bad judgment, and she does have bad judgment. Look at the message shes got us into with Syria. Everything she touches. And youre going to have four more years of that, we wont have a country left, folks. Believe me we will not have a country left. Not to mention the Supreme Court.
You got to remember, the Supreme Court -- Hello. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any place better than a Trump rally? Is there any place better, right? Even on a Saturday morning. Look at these crowds. I mean, we have crowds. You know, folks, Ill tell you what. Look, heres a Saturday morning in Tampa. We could be doing other things, right?
There are other things to be doing. And you look at the crowd. By the way, I was just informed, were two points up in Florida, and we havent even started yet. OK. We havent even started. And after this, Im going to Pittsburgh. Well be in Pittsburgh this afternoon, and were going to do great in Pennsylvania.
You know, the interesting thing is a lot of these states were not really states where the Republican was supposed to do well, and your traditional -- I guess, Im not traditional. You know, one of the reasons Im not -- remember Jeb Bush, he used to say, he is not a conservative. He is not a conservative.
I am actually conservative. But you know what. You know what I am? Im for what works. Like on trade. They said -- they said -- on trade, they say we want free trade. So do I. But to have free trade, you need smart leaders. We dont have smart leaders. We have dumb leaders. OK. So we have to do. So heres the story on trade.
They said, do you like free trade? I said yes. Well, whats your policy on trade? You know what I said? I want to make good deals for the United States. Thats my policy. Its very simple. I dont care if its free. I dont care if its totally unfree. I want to make good deals for the United States because the United States is getting ripped off by every single country virtually in the world.
Every country is taking our money and taking our jobs and we have people that are political hacks negotiating the biggest deals in the world, and they dont know what the hell theyre doing. And we have the greatest business people in the world, many of whom have endorsed me, Carl Icahn, all these guys, theyre all endorsing me, and they dont want to get paid money.
For them, its a game of poker. Its a game of chess. They want to go against China. Theyve done great against China. Ive done great against China. And I do really well. I like the Chinese people. I love the Mexican people. I have so many Mexicans working for me. I love all these countries. I dont hold anything against people.
I hold it against our leaders for being so totally grossly incompetent because they dont know what theyre doing. And you look at these trade deals, and you look where China, as an example. Hey look, the biggest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in a building in Manhattan, from China. I sell condos to people from China for a tremendous amount of money, tens of millions of dollars.
I love these people. I love these people. I own a big chunk of the Bank of America building in San Francisco, comes through China through an indirect way, very complicated, but through China. We can do great with China. And by the way China is ripping us off, so is every other country. China is ripping us off.
Theyre the No. 1 abuser. Because what they do is they devalue their currency. You ever notice? Whenever they have a little problem, we start to cut in. They devalue their currency. Knock our companies out of business. They knock us out of business. And again, Im not angry at China. Im angry at our leaders, if you call them that.
Our leaders. Im not angry at China. Im not angry at anybody. Im angry at our leaders because they dont know what theyre doing. They dont know. And were not going to have a country -- Ill tell you what, I didnt need to do this, folks. You know, in all fairness. I didnt need to do this. This is something.
I want to give back. You ever hear the expression people want to give back. Ive done so well in this country. Its been such a great country. I love the people of the country now more than ever before. You know, we have a movement going on, folks. I mean, look at this room, this massive room at this time.
What time is it? Yeah. I mean, its like in the morning. Look at this room. And its like this no matter where we go, we give one days notice. Yesterday, we gave one days notice. We were in Virginia. One days notice. The place -- I mean, we have thousands and thousands of people. And its called -- listen to this, its called a movement.
We are part of a movement. And you know, in many, many years, I was on the cover of Time Magazine. All these years I work and work, I was on the cover of Time Magazine I think once or twice, right? For years, years, 35 years. Thats not so bad, once or twice cover of Time. Now, the last six months, I think Im four or five times.
Is it crazy? So it shows you -- no, it shows you how important it is. Its like the other day, I woke up. I looked, I say, whats that? Its the cover of Time Magazine. Its my picture. I didnt even know I was gonna be on the cover. Because you know what happens? We have something going thats so special, thats so big, thats so important, pundits are saying, many of them, its the single greatest political movement that theyve seen ever in this country, ever in this country.
And were going to win the race. You know, one thing that I was talking about before, a number of states, I dont know if you saw with New York, I won in a massive landslide. We won Pennsylvania in the primaries in a massive landslide. Theyre all landslides. Connecticut was so great. We won that in a massive landslide.
They even used the word -- they hate to use it with me. If it was Bernie Sanders, theyd say it was a massive landslide. Not so long ago, I had 17,000 people at an event Bernie, at a different location, had 3,000 people, which is a lot of people, 3,000 people. But I had this massive crowd. I think it was 17,000. And they said, Donald Trump is here tonight, and hes discussing what hes discussing.
You know, lets all fall asleep, and they go, ha. And he goes Donald Trump talked about this. And then OK, back to you in New York. And then the guy from Bernie said. Bernie Sanders is here tonight. Hes got a massive crowd of 3,000 people. And Im saying, I dont believe it. I have 17,000 people, they dont say it. And by the way, the cameras they never scan the room.
Every time -- no its true. They never scan the room. Very dishonest people. Theyre very dishonest people, but they never -- the only time they scan the room is if there is a protester because thats a bad thing, they think. But I love my protesters. We love our protesters, right? We love -- were going to get -- many of those protesters are going to end up -- believe me. A lot of the protesters that you see, theyre going to end up voting for Trump, believe me. When they learn how crooked Crooked Hillary is, theyre going to end up voting for Trump.
And a lot of Bernie Sanders people, you know, he got he got a rigged system. Now I used to say the Republican system was rigged, but it is. Its impossible. Its almost impossible for a guy like me -- you know, I was establishment. I shouldnt say it. Everyones going to leave if I say that, but thats OK. I was like the ultimate establishment guy.
Campaign contributions. I was very popular. They call me, hi, Mr. Trump. Were having a golf outing. I always say no, thanks, but I always send the check. But I was like an establishment person. And then once I said Im running. They said, what the hell, hes running. And all of a sudden, he became the outsider of all outsiders.
And Im running because I understand how the system works better than anybody. So Ive been doing this now for 12 months. Have I done a good job. Have I done a good job? Have I done a good job? But Ive been doing it for 12 months, and its been, you know, its been -- thank you, honey. She said thank you.
Believe me. Its not easy, folks. You think this stuff is easy? Its not easy. But, but -- thank you. But you know what, I love doing it. A friend of mine, and Ive told this story, but a friend of mine likes to come to these things. A lot of people like to come. Whos been to these events more than once?
Im telling you, Im telling you, a great, great musician. Said Trump is the best in the world, and he doesnt have a guitar. Meaning we get the biggest crowds, and I dont play a guitar. Who else does this without a band or without a musical instrument? Believe me, its a lot easier with an instrument. But look, look, we have something happening thats so important.
And in November, we have to do such a good job. Now its early. Were just starting the process. Most people say dont even bother campaigning right now. Its June. Wait till after the convention. Were gonna have a great convention. Wait till after the convention. Dont bother. I dont want to do that. Im sitting home Im listening to lies being told about me by this dishonest media because, believe me, they are so dishonest.
You know, so dishonest. Man. I watched this poor, sad Mitt Romney this morning. He suffers from misogynist. I dont think he knows what misogynist is. He suffers from -- and hes sitting like a real stiff. Dont forget, this guy let us down, folks. He choked, and he let us down. And were not going to let it -- and he knows thats -- look, he doesnt like Trump because I said you cant give him a third chance.
He lost the first time. He really lost the second time. And the second time was a race that was an easy one. We had a failed president. We had a president whos a disaster and was a disaster. And at that point, he was even lower than he is now. So we had a failed president, and we had a candidate that didnt work like he should have worked.
He wasnt doing television. You know, I called up. Id said -- because I supported him. I gave him a tremendous amount of money. I did robo calls. I did a couple of speeches for him. Frankly, if they wouldve used me in Florida, he wouldve won Florida. But theyre not smart enough. They wouldve won Florida.
But you know what, I worked for him. But then when I heard he was going to run again and I was thinking about running I let him know. I said the guys a stone cold loser. He choked. And when youre a choker, you can never give a choker a second chance. Its too important. A choker is a joke. You see it in sports.
You see it in sports, folks. When the guy misses the kick you get rid of him, you get another one in there. They miss the big shot, you get him out of there, folks. I dont know. Thats the way I feel. We couldnt take a chance. You know, so I backed John McCain, and he lost. And his was a tough situation, because frankly, Im not sure Abraham Lincoln could have won that speech with what was going on. But I backed John McCain, and he lost.
I backed Mitt Romney, and he really lost. And then I said, you know what, folks, this time, were going to do it ourselves. Were gonna win. Were going to win. No more games. No more games. No more -- no more sitting there, saying, I think hes a racist. I am the least racist person that youve ever met, believe me. The least racist person.
I get a call yesterday as an example, street smart guy, smart guy. But very street smart .But Don King, you know Don King, the boxing promoter. And Don King said Donald, Im endorsing you for president. Now, you think Don King, and he knows me well. You think hes going to endorse a racist, OK? So you know, its a sad situation when people -- but you know, were going to win.
But if it ever happened where I did, Id go off into the sunset, folks. Good luck in four years, you go off into the sunset. You dont sit there jealous and sick to your stomach. You go off. We have a war to win against a very crooked politician named Hillary Clinton, OK. I dont want to waste a lot of time trying to defend ourselves against these phony people.
That are. I dont know, theyve got something. But I watched the level. The Republican Party really should get their act together. They have to come together. We got to win. And if for no other reason, the Supreme Court, remember that. For no other reason. Now I always say most importantly is defense. We got to protect our country.
We have a military thats totally depleted. You all saw on FOX and on CNN, they did separate reports where our great great pilots, these are these great young people. And now, theyre not as young, because theyve been -- one of them there for 18 years. And he said, you know, when I came in, this equipment was beautiful, new nice.
Now hes flying the same equipment, and its old and its tired. Fighter jets. Fighter jets. These are the fighter jets. This is the United States. And the fighter jets are old, and they have no parts from this so old. So you know what they do? For the United States, our great pilots, our best fighter jets, theyre going to the desert.
Where they have what they call plane graveyards, and theyre going to museums where they have these. Theyre in museums, theyre so old. And theyre taking the parts from the museum. And theyre taking the parts from the graveyard and they are putting them on the fighter jets, and then our young people. Men and women, are getting in these planes in their flying planes and being shot at. Thats not going to happen anymore, folks.
Thats not going to happen anymore. Were going to build up our military. And dont forget, when Crooked Hillary says Donald Trump temperament. Shes got the bad temper. And remember what -- remember what the Secret Service agent said. Shes a total mess. Shes unstable. Shes unstable, and she cant be president.
Thats what they said. So she uses the thing about Trumps temperament. Look, we need strong temperament. At first I, was going to say, oh, but I have a good temperament. Its not a question. I have a strong temperament. Im the one who didnt want to go into Iraq, remember that. You know, all these people say Donald Trump is tough.
They talk about the trigger, right? The nuclear trigger. But let me tell you Ill probably be the last one to do it. I hope to God we never have to do it, because that is a disaster. But Im the one that didnt want to go into Iraq. Now I was a civilian, so nobody really cared that much. I was doing my deals.
I mean, you know, its not like old Mr. Trump, what do we do? But Im dated back, way back where I was saying no Iraq. Youre going to destabilize the Middle East. By the way, everything I said happened. Everything I said. It all happened. The Middle East is destabilized. I said Iran is going to take over Iraq.
Thats exactly what happened. Because you had two powers that were identical in terms of military strength and they fight with each other for decades. Theyd go 10 feet 10 feet 10 feet rest. 10 feet 10 feet. Gas would be thrown by Saddam Hussein. The world would go crazy. Then Iran throws a little gas, then they rest.
And this went on for decades. Right. Didnt we knock the hell out of one of these two nations that hated each other. And remember this about Iraq. Iraq has among the biggest oil reserves in the world. So not only did we give Iran. One of the great deals of the century. When our very very incompetent Secretary of State, John Kerry, grossly incompetent.
This guy never got up from the table wants to walk. How do you make a deal with people, and theyre great negotiators, the Persians. Theyre great negotiators. How do you not get up once, twice. And I used to hear what theyre doing. I used to follow it. I love it. You know deals, I love deals. I mean, frankly, any deal, I love deals.
But heres one that was so obvious, and theyd say no. And wed say, well, wed like to have this. No. Oh, OK. How about this? No. OK, we agree. And then the guy goes into a bicycle race. Hes 73 years old, he wants to be in a bicycle race. He breaks his leg, hes walking around like, can you believe? In the middle of the biggest negotiation, he goes into a bicycle race, he breaks his leg and hes incapacitated.
And then a few weeks later he walks in on crutches. And you know what theyre saying to each? How dumb is this guy? How dumb? This is the kind of people we have. And we have the prisoners. And theyre over there. And that negotiation should have never ever started unless those prisoners were released before it started.
And the first meeting should have been with John Kerry or anybody saying, sorry, folks, we can not do this negotiation as long as you are holding our hostages. We cant do it. And theyll say, no way, were not going to do it. Sorry but we have to. And we leave the room. We get back on the plane. We double up the sanctions.
And by the time you get back to the United States, therell be a phone call. The prisoners are released. Lets get going. OK? I wanted two big things in that. First of all, anything nuclear, if you can make good deals in nuclear, thats a good thing. I have to say. Im all for deals. But they got to be good deals, not bad deals.
We make bad deals. We dont have anybody to make good deals. We dont have people that are smart. We dont have deal makers. We have political. I wont say it. I wont say it, because Ill get in trouble. You know when I use a slightly off word, slightly off, when I called this really bad senator. Shes done nothing.
Shes done nothing. She said shes native American. And I said Pocahontas -- its Pocahontas. And somebody said to me, one of the media. Mr. Trump, would you apologize? I said yes, Ill apologize. To Pocahontas, I will apologize, because Pocahontas is insulted by the state. No, I mean we -- this is what were dealing with, folks.
This is what were dealing with. We have to get smart. We have to get tough. We have to stop being so politically correct. The Republican Party, the Republican Party, and our leaders, weve got to get down to business. We cant be -- I mean, Ive had more opposition from the Republican Party than I do from the Democrats.
Its crazy. With that being said, I think its coming together. I think its coming -- dont forget Im an outsider. Theyre not used to it. You know we had 18 people. And then one after, boom, boom, boom, boom. And some of it wasnt nice. You know, Jeb Bush was favored to win, and I would say he doesnt like me too much.
You know whats interesting, guys, there are a number of them, but a number of them. But they signed a pledge. The reason they wanted the pledge was because of me. They wanted me to sign the pledge. I would have honored the pledge if I didnt make it. I would have honored the pledge. And it would have been hard to do, actually.
Because for some of them, it would have been very hard to do. But I would have honored the pledge. So they sign a pledge. They go into the RNC. They use all of their information because they signed the pledge. So they took, I guess, you could say millions of dollars worth of free information. And then they lose.
And they dont honor the pledge. You know, Im from business. We sort of have to do things like we honor things. They sign a pledge, they dont honor the pledge. So the Republican Party has to be tough, has to be smart. And if theyre not tough and smart, Im going to win, but a lot of other people wont. Im telling you, thats whats going to happen.
We have a couple of senators, we dont want to endorse Trump. Thats OK. I dont care. If they dont endorse me, thats fine. Im not going to campaign it. I have one or two states where Im leading in the state, and theyre doing poorly. And they dont want to endorse me. And Im saying, what the hell are they doing?
You know, what are they doing. And I dont care. But we could have a case where I win and many others dont. And Ill tell you whats going to happen. If that happens, then I have a Senate without the majority, which would be bad. Because Id love to see the majority. I was with Mitch yesterday. I would love to see the majority.
But the Republicans have to stick together, they have to be smart, and they have to be tough. Because you know, one thing Ill say about the Democrats to a much greater degree, they stick together. They stick together, much more so than the Republicans. Nobodys ever been able to explain why, but the Republicans have to be tough because we have the better ideas.
We have the better ideas. And my ideas are better than any of them, believe me. My ideas are better than them. Because many people Democrat and Republican say youre too tough on trade. Too tough? Im not too tough on trade. When we lose $505 billion -- we have a trade deficit with China. $505 billion, and then they say, youre being a little bit tough on China.
We have rebuilt China, folks. Weve rebuilt it. You go there, you see airports the likes of which weve never seen. You see trains that go 250 fifty miles an hour. We have the Long Island railroad, which is always dear to my heart, chug chug, chug, chug. We will be out of service for the next one week. Were fixing the tracks.
You know. No, I mean its a whole different thing. The Trump train. The the Trump train. Who said that? Who said that? Somebody over there said we got the Trump train. Thats a very good day. I would have never thought of that one. I like -- well the Trump train has gone 600 miles an hour, folks, Ill tell you but.
But weve got China. And they laugh at us. They think were stupid people. They think were like our leaders. They look at all of us, and all of us are disgusted. Thats why I am doing well. I mean, this is my first stop in Florida. My first campaign stop. You know, again, everybody said, oh wait till after the convention.
I cant wait. Im dying to get going. What am I going to do? Play around golf? Its boring. I want to do this. I want to do this. But then you have Mexico. Mexico is ripping us off so badly, folks. Mexico is killing us. Mexico -- and I have nothing against Mexican leaders. I have respect. In fact, one of them Vincente Fox.
He was the president of Mexico. He was on CNN. Its all right. And he said, we will never pay for that. And he used the F word, right? And I said, oh, hes going to get killed using the F word. Can you imagine if I used the F bomb? It would be the electric chair. Heres a guy, and he used the F -- he said we will never pay for that f bomb wall.
Right. I said, oh, hes dead. Nobody even mentioned it. Nobody even mentioned. But I was happy because a year ago and two years ago, he said, well never have a wall. Now hes saying, well never pay for the wall, so hes assuming the walls was going to happen. And just -- Folks, ready? America first. Very simple.
America first. Its America first. We got to build the wall. You know, 16,500 border patrol agents endorsed me. They endorsed me about three weeks ago. And I was very honored by that because they have never endorsed a presidential candidate before. And by the way, before I forget, the NRA, the National Rifle Association, endorsed me last week.
And for you incredible folks in Tampa, you know, Hillary Clinton wants to abolish the Second Amendment. She wants to take your guns. Who has guns in this place? Wow. Wow. And what would you say if somebody came along and said, we want to take that gun away from you? She wants to take your guns away. Thats what she wants to do. She wants to take your guns away.
Essentially, she wants to abolish the Second Amendment. And you know, when you look at Paris where they had 130 people killed viciously, I was just boom, boom, boom. Hundreds of people went to the hospital. Many, many of those people are still there. Theyll never be the same. Just destroyed. Right. Destroyed.
Totally destroyed. If there were guns on the other side of that room, or if in San Bernardino, 14 people killed by radical Islamic terrorists who became radicalized. And these were people that gave a baby shower to the child of these people that killed them. I mean, whats going on. We got to know whats going on here, folks.
14 people killed, many people in the hospital to this day. OK. 14 people. And let me tell you. If you wore the beautiful red hat Make America Great Again. If this woman here with the blue -- if a few of you had a gun right here, a gun around -- and bullets were flying in the other direction, No. 1, they may never have come into the place, because they would have said, there are guns in there.
I dont want to go in there. But at a minimum, the carnage would have been very, very, very substantially less. Let the bullets go in the other direction. Boom, boom, boom. Believe me. Believe me. Remember when our five great soldiers a little more than a year ago were killed. These were five great soldiers.
One of them was like a world class marksman. And on a military base, it was a gun-free zone. Can you imagine having a gun-free zone on a military base. These people are about guns and they know how to use guns. And theyre protecting us with guns. So they have a gun-free zone. These are five great soldiers.
One of a world class marksman. One of the top there is. So theyre sitting there, their guns are probably 200 yards away at a safe or something. And theyre sitting there, and this whack job walks in and kills them all. There wasnt a thing they could do. So were going to make things right again in this country, folks.
Were going to make things right. Were going to make great trade deals. Were going to build the wall. Were going to build the wall. OK. Are you ready? Whos going to pay for the wall? Better believe. You better believe. So and were going to end up having a great relationship with Mexico. Were going to end up having a great relationship with China.
Mexico will pay for the wall. You know when I was on the stage with the debates. I didnt know what I was getting -- I never debated professionally before. Many of these politicians, thats what they do. Thats what -- its all talk, no action stuff. So thats what they do, they debate. They dont get anything done.
They debate. So I went on every single poll of every single debate. And I have -- when I say this, all this, you know, sleazy people back there in the press. So I have to be careful. But when I debate, every single debate, every single poll -- now you have Drudge, a fantastic guy. You have Time Magazine.
You have Slate. You have polls now for everything. They have a poll for everything. No matter what it is. If you go to the bathroom, they have a poll. How many times in a day. But they have a poll for everything, and every single poll of every single debate, they had me winning the debate. Is that good? Is that good?
Every single. And which was a great honor. But when I look at it -- and heres the thing, I was center stage in every debate. You know the way guys kept falling off the ends. You know they kept falling off. I said Jeb youre not going to be here much longer. Youre pretty far down there. Jeb. Youre not going to be here much longer, Jeb.
You got to get tougher, Jeb. I dont think hes going to endorse me. Do you folks? I dont think so. Who the hell cares? Who cares? And by the way, Im very nice to a lot of the people that I won against. I dont even use the word that Ive defeated. I want to be nicer than that. Because some of them are good.
I mean Rick Perry is an example. Governor of Texas, very good guy, always liked him. But he became very vicious in the debate. And he actually went to the Washington Press Club and did a beautiful job. He did a speech. And he did a beautiful job. And he said Donald Trump is a cancer on the Republican Party.
I said, man, thats tough. And it was, you know, like a half an hour of this stuff. And then he was off. I was very tough on him, by the way. But he was off. I mean, dont I have a right to be with that? So he was out. Then he came back, didnt call me, and he said I endorse Donald Trump. And hes maybe the smartest person ever to run for president.
How about that? What a difference. What a difference. And I called him, and I thanked him, and I understand this politics and its tough stuff. But I appreciate when people are respectful. And you know, you can lose and you show respect. But I appreciate it. And we have some good people. We have some good people on that stage.
And we have some great people in the Republican Party. Everybody wants to know who Im going to choose for vice president. Who do you like? He says Newt. Who do you like? They say Sessions. Sessions. He says Condi Rice. Who else? Who do you like? Ive never done this before. This is fun. This is -- we have a lot of good people, youll be happy.
Youre going to be happy. And we have some unbelievable people for different positions, like homeland security, like Attorney General. Dont forget with Hillary -- dont forget with Hillary, you got a six year statute of limitations, folks. Because honestly, were being 100% straight. Look. Whats happening with Hillary Clinton is a disgrace.
Shes broken the laws of our land. Shes made us totally vulnerable from a national security standpoint. She was Secretary of State. What she did with her server is illegal. Its wrong. Both on a commonsense basis and on a legal basis. Its wrong. Its wrong. And it looks to me like nothings going to happen to her because its a rigged system, folks.
Its a rigged system. So were going to find out. Were going to find out. But it looks to me like nothings going to happen. Why would they let it go so long? You know, why would they let it go so long? And then Obama endorses the person. And Josh Earnest yesterday said essentially that this is a criminal investigation.
Now I think he -- when he said that, they probably went nuts in the White House, and a lot of people said he wasnt supposed to say that, but he probably said the truth. But when you get right down to it, how do you endorse somebody thats under criminal investigation. And well have to see what happens, folks.
But people that have done 5% of what shes done, whether its General Petraeus or many others, theyve done nothing compared to what shes done. They have been forced to pay a price that you wouldnt believe. Its destroyed their lives. And Hillary is out there campaigning and saying 100% certain that nothing happens.
Did you see that the other day? 100%. Whos 100% certain about anything. Shes 100%. How can she be 100% -- what she did. You know, when you watch all of the pundits, when you watch, they bring in the lawyers. And I read it, and I see it, and I study it, and I have great lawyers. And every one of them says to me, guilty.
You very rarely see a lawyer that says not guilty, all right? So lets say even if it was 90%, but I dont even know if I see anybody that says not. Shes guilty. So how is she allowed to run for president. Now with that being said, I really want to run against her. I have to be on. Thats the one we want to run against.
So were going to build the wall. Were going to make great trade deals with Mexico. And what happened is these guys would come off the stage at the beginning, like early on the debates. They come -- youre not really serious about the wall. You cant really build a wall. And Id say, listen, let me tell you, Im not going to mention names.
But a lot of people are saying , a lot of politicians were saying, because they dont know anything about building. How many people know how to build here. I love builders. You know, Im building the Old Post Office in Washington D.C. One of the most sought after properties in the history of the General Services Administration, GSA.
Like thats like the landlord of the country. And great people, by the way. I got it. One of the most sought after. They were -- everybody wanted it. I got it. Because it was strong financial state. They want to make sure I got finished. Very strong balance sheet, No. 1. And No. 2, they liked my vision. So heres the story.
Im much more than a year ahead of schedule, and in fact, Ill tell you a little story. Im two years ahead of schedule. And I told my people -- I told my people, dont say that, because it doesnt sound right. It sounds too much, right? Does that make sense? I say say were a year ahead of schedule. Its crazy.
Were two years ahead of schedule. We dont have to have it open for two years. And were going to be opening like in September, well have a ribbon cutting. I want to delay it a little bit toward the election, you understand? I could actually do it in September early. I dont want to because you know because sometimes, you people only have a two weeks span.
We remember for two weeks. Its no good. So I think Ill open in September, but Ill have the grand opening like how about around October 29th or something like that, right? But its true. Im close to two years ahead of schedule. And I told my people, I said dont say two years because they came out and they said were two years ahead.
I said its not believable. Its true. I said say one year, it sounds better. Crazy, right? Am I right about that or not? Two years, it sounds like too much. How can you be two years. Im two years, but Im going to say one year because I think Im covered that way, right. But I built a great building. Im under budget and ahead of schedule.
Under budget and ahead of schedule. Terms you never ever ever here with our government. They build a road, it costs ten times more. They build a bridge. Look at San Francisco with the bridge. They built a bridge -- who built the bridge? China. China built the bridge, right? San Francisco, way, way over budget.
China. You think China made a couple of bucks on the bridge? Oh, I dont think so. Nobody knows that stuff. Thats what Im best in. Can you imagine? Can you imagine? Having somebody that really knows how to build, and knows how to build under budget, ahead of schedule. Im really good at this stuff. And it can be done.
And we have everything cost too much. Our military stuff. Were going to build up our military, but we got to buy the best equipment at the lowest price. We dont do that. We dont do that. I mean, theres so many things that we have to do. Theres so many. I give you an example. I won the primaries spending just about the least amount of money.
I mean, I cant compare this to couple of guys that didnt even -- you know, they had no money. They got zeros, right? They were all at zero. I mean, you had so many guys at zero, they stayed for the following week. Zero, zero, zero. I said, how many times can they stay at zero? I spent less money than anybody else, and I had, by far, the best results, massive victories, landslides, right?
And I think about our education system. Were last on the list in terms of countries. Were ranked No. 28 to 30. And you have Norway, Denmark, Sweden, China Japan. Theyre the top countries. But were ranked last. Or close to last. And yet, we spend the most. So just so you understand with me. I spent the least and I had the best result in education.
Isnt that what we want? OK. So in education, we spent the most. We spent the most money per pupil in the world by a factor that there is no second place. There is no second place. So this is what we want to do. First of all, were getting rid of Common Core. Were going to bring education local. OK. Obviously it doesnt -- obviously, obviously.
But I want to thank everybody. This is a great honor. Ill be seeing you a lot. Ill be here so much. Ill be in Florida. Ill be with you so much over the next five months that youre going to say, please keep him the hell out of Florida. Hes driving us crazy. Hes driving us crazy. But seriously, look, we have a big task.
Winning Florida is absolutely imperative. You know in Florida, they say its over. But I think Im going to win a lot of states that nobody ever thought about because were getting numbers that are incredible in states that no Republican really would think about. But were going to win Florida. But most importantly, if I win, our country is going to start winning again.
OK. Were going to start winning again. Were going to win with every element. Were going to win with our military. We will defeat ISIS, by the way, very, very quickly. Very quickly. We have no choice. Chop off heads, have no choice. Were going to win at the border. Were going to win with trade. Were going to win with education.
Were going to win with everything. Oh, happy birthday. Theyre singing happy birthday. Dont tell them yet. I dont want to hear about that birthday. Thank you, darling. Thats so nice. I dont know if I wanna -- Im very torn on that birthday. Im very torn. You understand me? Im very torn. I feel like Im 35. Thats the good news.
