Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Atkinson, NH|November 4, 2016
Thank you very much. Thank you, folks.
You know, this is where it all began, New Hampshire. This is where it all began.
First victory. This was our first victory and Ive never forgotten it. And I made a promise to you. Were going to keep the poison out. You know what that is, the drugs. Were gonna stop those drugs.
Right -- right here is where I learned more about it than in any place else and we are gonna stop the poison from coming into this country.
You watch. You watch.
In four days, we are going to win the great state of New Hampshire...
... and we are going to win back the White House.
And weve had incredible polls. Youve probably seen the new Rasmussen poll just came out, were three points up nationwide and going like a rocket.
Many, many polls. I wont even go over all the polls, but were leading in Ohio, and Iowa, all over the place.
I think were doing great in North Carolina. I think were doing great in Pennsylvania too, by the way. And Florida looks beautiful. Florida looks beautiful. We have so many great polls.
But you have to get out and vote on November 8th. You have to do that. Were on the cusp of historic change that transfers power from a failed political establishment and returns that power to you, the American people. Thats whats gonna happen.
Thats whats gonna happen.
Theres more breaking news, as you probably heard, that Id like to share with you right now. Is that OK?
As you know, the FBI now has multiple open criminal investigations into Hillary Clinton.
This includes the discovery of another 650,000 e-mails and also a far-reaching criminal investigation into her pay for play scheme at the State Department. Last night, CBS News just confirmed that the 650,000 e-mails include brand new e-mails not previously seen by authorities.
She said she gave them all in, right? She said, gave them all in. Well, when we saw 650,000, we figured, I guess there has to become surprises. Wait till you see what they find in those 650 too, it wont be pretty.
Hillary Clinton lied to Congress under oath when she said she turned over all her work-related e-mails, and that she didnt send classified information on her illegal server. Meaning, she may now face major problems for perjury.
How can Hillary manage this country, when she cant even manage her e-mails? Did you ever see -- hey, folks, lets forget all of the stuff -- what a mess -- what a mess. All she had to do was follow the rules and assume people are watching or listening, who cares right? What a mess, and for what? Now were going to have her running the country for four years?
What a -- honestly, what a terrible, terrible mess. Over -- over what? Over nothing, over what should have been nothing. All she had to do was follow the rules, unbelievable. And now she is going to run the country. She will be under investigation for years, she will be with trials. Our country, we have to get back to work, right?
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Well, one of her top people, I guess her top person said -- WikiLeaks, said she has bad instincts, what a bad thing, bad instincts. She should fire him, honestly. That would be good instincts, but she should fire him, John Podesta. In an e-mail said, Hillary has bad instincts. Do you want that for your president? Then Bernie Sanders said -- Bernie Sanders said bad judgment, but in all fairness he was running against her. So he said bad judgment.
But the guy thats running her campaign says Hillary really has bad instincts. Then were going to say, lets make her president. The FBI agents say their investigation is likely to yield an indictment, however the report also shows that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying as hard as it can to protect their angel, Hillary Clinton. Why didnt they protect General Cartwright, and why didnt they protect General Petraeus? Why didnt they protect a kid whos taking a couple pictures of a submarine -- thats an old submarine? And they put him in jail -- they put him in jail -- lovely family, lovely mother, they put him in jail because he wanted to have some remembrance of where he worked. Its an old submarine, believe me, they have pictures of that submarine that nobody knows about, probably, right? They put him in jail.
And you see what she does and shes allowed to run for president. Folks do you know what it tells you? The system is rigged, and Ive been saying that for a long time.
The system is rigged, she shouldnt be allowed to run. Hillary is engaged in massive criminal enterprise and cover-up. She created an illegal e-mail server to shield her criminal activity and corrupt pay for play. She illegally transmitted confidential information -- youre just not allowed to do that. Forget about the second go round, what shes in now. The first go around, youre not allowed to do it, youre not allowed to delete after you get subpoena.
She illegally destroyed federal records, including 33,000 e- mails, which she deleted after getting that subpoena from Congress. If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis, what a mess. I mean, we went through it with him, with the impeachment and the lies, arent we tired of this stuff?
Yes!
She is likely to be under investigation for a long time, concluding in a criminal trial, our president. America deserves a government that can go to work on day one and get it done.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing the disaster known as Obamacare.
And Obama, you know, he is campaigning all over the place. I left Miami yesterday, there was the plane. He is campaigning -- he ought to be in the White House working and getting our jobs back, and building up our military, and creating some semblance of a border -- which we dont have now.
Its just been announced that Americans nationwide are going to experience a massive, double digit premium hike in Obamacare. In the great state of Arizona -- where I just left, and Ill be back -- premiums are going up more than 116 percent, Arizona, 116 percent. Over 90 percent of the counties in New Hampshire are losing Obamacare, theyre losing the insurers, and thats going to be next year. So lots of luck negotiating, folks, 90 percent. Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting and deductibles are going through the roof. Other than that, its a fantastic health care, fantastic.
Its really fabulous, isnt it? It was bad before they even did it. You have to say, Im pretty consistent -- I called a lot of things over the years, right? But I said Obamacares not going to work before it was even approved and he got it approved -- he got it approved by lies because he said you keep your doctor, you keep your plan and even Democrats that didnt want it, they said all right, well then. And he got people -- they wish they didnt approve it now, believe me. It is a catastrophe.
Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive than it already is and it doesnt work. Im asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in New Hampshire and every family in this country.
Real change also means restoring honesty to government. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption, which theres plenty.
First thing we have to do is keep Hillary Clinton out of office.
That will be a good start. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words, we -- all of us together -- are about to say. When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.
Drain the swamp!
Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp!
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs, about time. The terrible jobs report that just came out shows the number of people not in the workforce increased by another 425,000 people last month. Thats why you see these phony numbers about five percent unemployed. People are stopping, theyre not looking for work anymore because they cant get a job, then they take them off the rolls.
These numbers are an absolute disaster. Labor force participation has fallen to its lowest level in nearly 40 years, thats whats happening. Nearly one in four people in their prime working years are not working. They want to work, theyre not working. After eight years, Obama is the first president in modern history not to have a single year of three percent growth. Were growing at any average of probably one to two percent, nobody even knows and nobody believes the numbers anyway. The numbers they put out are phony as far as Im concerned.
For millions of Americans, its an economic nightmare. New Hampshire has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton.
This is the one thats hardest to believe of all. America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization. You people know -- New England, boy do you know it. Another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, and thats what it is when you think. We have a one way highway right into Mexico and these other places. They take our jobs and they take our money, they take out cash. You know what we get out of it? Drugs and unemployment. Its going to end, dont worry about it, folks. Dont even think about it. Its going to end.
Dont forget -- and I have to say this, because I tell this story all over the place. I learn so much in New Hampshire because I see this place, its so beautiful. To me, its one of the most beautiful places on Earth. You -- nice, beautiful winding roads -- even the roads, everythings so -- the trees and the little lakes and streams. And I sat down because I have so many friends up here, because I worked hard during those primaries.
Remember, I was supposed to lose the primary. I won in a landslide, right?
Remember they had the story the day before. It looks like Trump could lose New Hampshire. And the numbers came out, it was a land slide. But what I learned is -- because it was so -- it was sort of shocking because I considered -- you know, I love this kind of look. And I consider with the trees and the whole thing -- so beautiful. And I sat down with groups of people. You know, it wasnt always big rallies because Id sit down with people.
Say, Whats the problem?" Every single group said heroin. I said
And then I met with your police. You have the great -- you have such great law enforcement up here. But they said the same thing.
And so much of their crime is caused by drugs. They come from the southern border largely. And I said to you -- I said to you and you remember this, if I make it, we are going to stop that problem and then were gonna work on all of the people who are so seriously addicted. And there are things happening -- you know, there are things happening with medicines that the federal FDA is not even releasing. Theyre not even releasing. There are things that come out that potentially could really help.
But were gonna work on the people that have become so seriously addicted because its tremendous. Its not only our youth. You know, I say poisoning our youth, but its a lot of other people. But I learned that from New Hampshire. Then I go to other states and they say very similar things. But honestly never as much fervor as drugs in New Hampshire, and it just really had a great impact.
I said to you Im gonna solve the problem if I get there. And boy, are we are getting close. Now were getting close, right?
True. Were gonna solve it. When you see the rusted out factories and empty buildings, just remember this. Hillary Clintons policies and others like her, her friends, did this to us, all of us. Just look at the devastation. Rockwell laid-off 169 people in Manchester and moved their jobs to Mexico. Fisher -- and these are recent. Fisher Scientific laid-off 213 people in Hudson and moved their jobs to Mexico. The woman -- I just overheard her say, I didnt know that." Right? Now you know. Now you know. She was a little louder than she thought. Thats OK. ""rue. Were gonna solve it. When you see the rusted out factories and empty buildings
She didnt know. Now she knows. Car Component Technologies laid-off 559 workers in Bedford and moved their jobs to Canada and to Mexico. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, believe me, and we will stop the jobs from leaving New Hampshire.
The theft of American prosperity will end. They have taken away our prosperity. From now on, its going to be America first.
Therell be consequences. There will be consequences. If a company wants to fire their workers, leave New Hampshire, move another -- you know, to another country, wonderful. Enjoy yourself, right? And then ship their products back into the United States, they will pay a 35 percent tax, OK?
And let me just tell you a little -- right now, they move, they build, they have lots of fun and they just send it right through a very weak border. First of all, theyre gonna have to send through a very strong border, but thats OK. But theyre gonna have a 35 percent tax.
Heres whats going to happen: theyre not gonna move because it doesnt work anymore. Theyre not gonna move. Theyre gonna stay in this country. Theyre gonna stay in New Hampshire. Theyre gonna stay in this country. Its so simple. But the politicians will never approve that because the special interests and their donors want them to be able to go and -- you know, its good for them, but its not good for us.
A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA, and if we dont get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers. We have to have jobs...
You know, I -- I said before, its a one -- its a one-lane highway. We have to have a lane coming in our direction too, folks. We have nothing. We get nothing.
We will also immediately stop the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. Thats gonna be the next disaster.
Thats another beauty. Thatll take the jobs you have left.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent and well keep our business.
Were right now the highest taxed nation in the world. And remember, Hillary wants to raise taxes, big league. We will massive cut taxes for the middle class. She wants to raise them big league. Doesnt even make sense. We will also -- thats right; $1.3 billion -- $1.6 billion.

Trillion? Not a , trillion. Youre right. Nobody can even believe it. One point -- go ahead.

Thats right. He read the -- he read her page. And if she says that, its going higher. You know that. $1.3 trillion. Can you -- its inconceivable. Were the highest taxed nation in the world. Remember that.
We will also cancel -- were gonna save ourselves altogether, OK?
He says, Save us." Were gonna all save ourselves.""e says

They dont even question. And now, were gonna -- were gonna -- were gonna be so strong again and so smart again. Were gonna be -- you dont have to worry about saving. Its gonna be well beyond saving, OK?
