Donald Trump|Leaked Interview:  Donald Trump with The Wall Street Journal|July 25, 2017
Tax, other things.
As we speak.
What did you say?
Can you believe it? Isnt that nice. Theres good reason for it, too, and I think were doing pretty well on health care. Well see.
I call it a motion to talk, you know. Its not a motion to proceed.
Its not -- basically, its a motion to talk. But once you get that motion, its in pretty good shape, once you get in. Its hard to get in, but once you get in. So were going to see. John McCain was a great help, coming in as he did. And so it was something I very much appreciate, and well see what happens. Were going to know in about two hours.
A lot. A lot.
Many conversations. I just had one with a certain senator that was very convincing to that senator. So Ive done a lot. I mean, last night -- last night it was amazing. I was at the -- you know, I was in West Virginia doing certain things and making a speech to the Boy Scouts, and that was some crowd. That was an incredible crowd.
But Ive been working hard, trying to get the senators to go along with it. And I -- you know, I think I -- you know, look, just dont quote me on this unless it happens, but I think we have a pretty good shot. And that votes taking place at about 2:00 today, right? 2:00?
A little bit later?
Well, then you have to go and decide on what plan you want, which way youre going to go. You want to decide on is it repeal or repeal and replace. If its repeal and replace, which one do you want to go? Which form of existing conditions? I mean, theres many things. But once youre in there, then you can really negotiate. This is actually the heart, though. Once youre there, you can, you know, Gerard -- oh, say hello.
So you do, you have a -- is it the same spelling?
How did that happen? I think you named your daughter after --
So hes -- I think you copied.
You did a good job.
You did a good job. Hes a good -- hes a good boy.
Thanks, Honey. Stay around if you want.
So well have the vote today at probably 3:00 or so. And we have the head of Lebanon coming in; thatll be interesting, a little -- a little change of pace. We keep it interesting. But so well see what thats all about.
Id rather see repeal and replace because I -- I can do either way. If you remember, it was -- you know, it was an idea that I had very early on, repeal. Trouble with repeal is youll have millions of people out there that -- well, its like we just got the highest confidence in many years; you know, people out there that will say, well, you know, how do we know were going to have health care? And I hate to do that to people.
Ive always -- Im always concerned about that. I dont like it. I dont like it from that standpoint. Now, with that being said, you might be able to make a very good deal because I think theres a lot of pressure on the Democrats. But the Democrats are nothing more than obstructionists. Thats all they can do. Thats all they seem to be good at. So theyre obstructionists, so what they will do, even though its for the good of the country, they will obstruct. They cant do anything about Obamacare, and I understand that. They dont want to vote against it. But now, once its done -- it was my original theory: Once its begun, now they can get together. They can do something. But they wont do that. Theres too much -- and this isnt with respect to me; this is years. This is years, Gerry. I mean, if you look at whats been going on over the last long period of time. I actually asked people that are political people -- I could ask you people -- you know, is it the worst youve seen it? And Ive had every single person, no, actually theres certain other times that were worse. There were certain times in Obamas administration that were worse.
You think -- yeah, the partisanship. So, anyway.
So Id rather see -- Id rather see replace. Id rather add the replace. And we have a very good plan. Thats the one thing, we really have a good plan. Weve covered a lot of territory. Its a very, very difficult situation because you move a little bit to the left and you lose four guys, you move a little bit to the right all of a sudden you have a bloc of people that are gone. You have about a one-inch road and it wheels through the middle of the valley, and if its even slightly off. Its a very difficult -- its a very difficult thing, always has been.
You know, if you think, Hillary Clinton, smart person, she was the first lady of the country, her entire life was spent -- her entire eight years was spent trying to get health care. Never even came close. Obama -- and one thing I have to say, Im here now exactly six months. Obama took would you say a year-and-a-half?
Because people were saying, Trump has not produced. I honestly believe for six months I have done more than just about any president when you look at all of the bills that were passed, 42, 43.
A lot of things. I think Im proud of the Supreme Court choice. And thats not just a nomination, thats getting him through. Im very proud of opening up regulations. One of the reasons you see optimism is because people can actually use their land. They can farm their land. Ive had tremendous and tremendous -- look, I had 45,000 people there yesterday. Its the biggest crowd theyve ever had, and they were -- they were going wild yesterday in West Virginia. But people can actually use their land and they can build.
And I think one of the things that I have to be very proud of is the VA. I think we have a great, great administrator, OK --
... and a great secretary, David Shulkin. Hes -- he was actually approved 100 to nothing, by the way.
Well, Id have to let you know. I have to see where we are with this. Lets see. Maybe it doesnt work, but I think its going to. And, you know, it is -- it would have been easier to start with taxes, but this is better if it works, OK? If it works, this is better.
But I think, you know, depending -- so if you asked me that question in a month or really at the end of the year, because we hope to get this. We hope to get taxes and then infrastructure. And then Im going to do a very big -- were doing very big trade deals, and were looking forward to that. But we want to do, ideally, this first.
You know, a lot of people said you should have started with taxes or you should have started with infrastructure. Well, infrastructure, Ill actually have bipartisan support, and I can use infrastructure to carry other things along. So I dont want to waste it at the beginning, if that makes sense.
Well, they tried -- they tried it with me. She spent hundreds of millions of dollars on negative ads. She didnt do a positive ad, virtually. And she lost easily, you know, 306 to 223 I think, right -- 223, something like that. ...
I mean, honestly, they -- the ads were coming at me. Hundreds of millions of dollars worth of negative ads. And when people went into the voter booth, they didnt know what she stood for. I always said that. I said if I can take this onslaught personally, its going to be a great thing because nobody knew what she stood for. So now, theyre trying to change their message a little bit, you know. I mean, its -- its one of those things, but now theyre trying to change their message and well see what happens.
But I think that were doing very well. Every indication is that in every one of our swing states were substantially up, like Ohio. Tonight Im going to Ohio -- Youngstown, Ohio -- and well be up -- were way up. You know, I won the state by 9 or 10 or something, by 9 or 10 points, without any governor support, OK? So you have the governor of Ohio not supporting you and you win by almost 10 points, which is pretty good because Ohios not -- if you remember, you guys were always saying you have to win Ohio, right?
No, right, no, its -- it was -- and we won, you know, by a landslide.
But were up. We have now -- are you going tonight? Are you going to the speech in Ohio tonight?
Oh, you did? Was that a scene, though? Huh?
Biggest crowd theyve ever had. What did you think?
Right.
Did they like it?
They loved it.  It wasnt -- it was no mix. That was a standing --
I mean, you know, he writes mostly negative stuff. But that was a standing ovation --
... from the time I walked out on the stage -- because I know. And by the way, Id be the first to admit mixed. Im a guy that will tell you mixed. There was no mix there. That was a standing ovation from the time I walked out to the time I left, and for five minutes after I had already gone. There was no mix.
And I got a call from the head of the Boy Scouts saying it was the greatest speech that was ever made to them, and they were very thankful. So there was -- there was no mix.
Yes.
Yes, very much. Very important.
Sure. I want to --
I want to achieve growth. Were the highest-taxed nation in the world, essentially, you know, of the size. But were the highest-taxed nation in the world. We have -- nobody knows what the number is. I mean, it used to be, when we talked during the debate, $2.5 trillion, right, when the most elegant person -- right? I call him Mr. Elegant. I mean, that was a great debate. We did such a great job. But at that time I was talking $2.5 trillion. I guess its $5 trillion now. Whatever it is, its a lot more. So we have anywhere from 4  to 5 or even more trillions of dollars sitting offshore.
We want to get that back, No. One, at a very reasonable cost. And that cost is going to be 10 percent. And right now, its so high that, No. One: You would never do it on a business basis. But, No. Two: Bureaucratically its impossible. Did you know that? I have friends that try and get their money back. They say they have to go through years of writing out forms and this and that to bring money back into the country. Were going to make that one -- like a half-a-page document. Its going to be very easy to bring your money back in. And its going to be taxed at 10 percent, which is a rate thats -- its within reason. And so thats one of the things we want to do. Thatll be an easy one. Thats one that -- you know, its -- when you talk about a country thats broken or a system thats broken, theres something -- the $5 trillion, lets call it -- that the Democrats and the Republicans agree should come back in. Its been out there for years. Nobody ever did anything about it. I mean, Obama ...
Obama could have gotten that money back in very easily, even if they did a separate bill. But nobody ...
Ten percent.
Well, you know, were going for 15  . Were going to see, and well see. But, you know, I dont want to say anything about negotiation. I mean, we are asking for 15 percent, and we think were going to grow tremendously.
So I deal with foreign countries, and despite what you may read, I have unbelievable relationships with all of the foreign leaders. They like me. I like them. You know, its amazing. So Ill call, like, major -- major countries, and Ill be dealing with the prime minister or the president. And Ill say, how are you doing? Oh, dont know, dont know, not well, Mr. President, not well. I said, well, whats the problem? Oh, GDP 9 percent, not well. And Im saying to myself, here we are at like 1 percent, dying, and theyre at 9 percent and theyre unhappy. So, you know, and these are like countries, you know, fairly large, like 300 million people. You know, a lot of people say -- they say, well, but the United States is large. And then you call places like Malaysia, Indonesia, and you say, you know, how many people do you have? And its pretty amazing how many people they have. So Chinas going to be at 7  or 8 percent, and they have a billion-five, right? So we should do really well.
But in order to do that -- you know, its tax reform, but its a big tax cut. But its simplification, its reform, and its a big tax cut, 15 --
Yeah, we want to do personal.
Right. Yeah, thats -- we dont want --
So I shouldnt say it with everybody in the room, especially Gary, but --  -- this is --
The truth is the people I care most about are the middle-income people in this country who have gotten screwed. And this upward revision, its going to be on high-income people.
You know, I was with Bob Kraft the other night. He came to have dinner with me. Hes a friend of mine. And as he left, he said, Donald, dont worry about the rich people. Tax the rich people. You got to take care of the people in the country. It was a very interesting statement. I feel the same way.
He had to pay 200 million in tax, Gary. Gary wrote a check for 200.
No, that was not right. That was not a correct statement, no.
We want -- look, the job producers were going to take great care of, but we have to take care of middle-income people in this country. They built the country, they started this whole beautiful thing that we have, and we have to take care of them. And people have not taken care of them, and were going to.
And I mean, I have wealthy friends that say to me I dont mind paying more tax. And Ill tell you what I sort of dont like, is when they -- you know, youll do your charts in The Wall Street Journal and theyll be brilliantly done, very nice, and theyll show that a rich guy who made, you know, $25 million last year is going to pay less than he was. In a certain way, I dont like that. Id rather take that difference and put it into the middle-income and put it into corporate.
Yeah, except theyre obstructionists. If they werent obstructionists, I would normally get Democratic support. So we dont anticipate that. We dont --
Well, do you mean 10 years versus? So it hasnt really come up. I mean, the last time it was 10 years. When George Steinbrenner died, like with the estate taxes, the estate paid nothing. And if he would have died like two weeks later, they would have paid 50 percent of the Yankees. That would have been the end of the team, right? He had very fine tax planners. But it hasnt come up. Wed like --
We would like to make them permanent, but I assume youre talking about like a --
We think were going to have tremendous growth. We think moneys going to come pouring into the country.
Look, were losing companies. People dont even realize how bad it is, but were losing companies every single day where theyre leaving because the taxes are too high. When we do this, well have companies -- I know companies that have left. They go to Ireland, they go to other -- I own a lot of property in Ireland. They go to Ireland because of these incredible tax rates, and other places, right? Well have companies pouring back into our nation. I mean, its going to be -- you know, its going to be beautiful.
I hope we can -- I hope we can do the 15 percent, actually. By the way, 15 percent is not by any means the lowest, but at least we would go from the highest to one of the lower, lower taxes.
But one of the things were doing that, so Gary and I are working -- because I said, you know, Gary, were going to have Foxconn come in. Were going to have a lot of companies that are coming in. Foxconns coming in with a big plan. We have Tim Cook I spoke to, and hes promised me three big plants -- big, big, big. I said, you know, Tim, unless --
Well have to see. You can call him. But I said, Tim, unless you start building your plants in this country, I wont consider my administration an economic success, OK? And hes called me and he says, you know, theyre going forward, three big, beautiful plants. Youll have to call him. I mean, maybe he wont tell you what he tells me, but I believe he will do that. I really believe it.
But I said to Gary, I said, you know, Gary, you go to certain sections and youre going to need people to work in these massive plants that were getting, that are moving in. Where do we have the people? You know where we have the people? In New York state that cant get jobs, in many other places that cant get jobs. And people are going to have to start moving. Theyre going to move to Colorado and theyre going to move to Iowa and Wisconsin and places where -- like if Foxconn goes to Wisconsin, which is one of the places theyre very strongly considering -- but if Foxconn goes to Wisconsin and they have a very low rate and the governors done an excellent job, youre going to have a situation where you got to get the people. But theyre going to start moving. And Im going to start explaining to people when you have an area that just isnt working -- like upper New York state, where people are getting very badly hurt -- and then youll have another area 500 miles away where you cant -- you cant get people, Im going to explain you can leave, its OK, dont worry about your house.
You know, a lot of them dont leave because of their house. Because they say, gee, my house, I thought it was worth 70,000 and now its worth nothing. Its OK. Go, cut your losses, right?
Yes.
I have a lot of respect for her, and I like her. Ive met her just a couple of times, but I like her. Its early to make the decision. She doesnt come up until February/March?
No, I have a lot of respect for her. I like her. She is --
I do like low interest rates. I mean, you know, Im not making that a big secret. I think low interest rates are good. I like a dollar thats not too strong. I mean, Ive seen strong dollars. And frankly, other than the fact that it sounds good, lots of bad things happen with a strong dollar.
I would say -- you mean to stay?
I would say yes, she is in the running to stay.
He doesnt know this, but yes, he is.
I actually think he likes what hes doing right now.
Dont tell Gary what I just said.
Yeah, there are two or three. But she is -- she is in the running, absolutely. I like her. I like her demeanor. I think shes done a good job. Id like to see rates stay low. Shes always been -- you know, shes historically been a low-interest-rate person, a believer.
I would say sometime by the end of year, probably.
I think so.
Yeah, but itll go quickly. Were starting to get them much quicker. You know, theyve been really holding up -- I mean, nine months, they have really been -- thats all they can do well. You know how many people I have in there? I have -- I have a lot of people in there, and they complain to me. Like Woody Johnson. Hes the ambassador to the Court of St. James, which is England, you know, et cetera, et cetera. And I mean, he said what they did to him was unbelievable. The process was so ugly. Ive had three or four people to be ambassadors, tremendous people, very successful people. They called me and they -- their whole life they wanted to do this, and they gave up. Its, you know --
Id rather not do that.
I havent -- Id rather not get involved. But I would say she is, certainly. And Gary is somebody that Ive gained great -- Ive known Gary for a long time -- but Ive gained great respect for Gary working with him. So Gary certainly would be in the mix. I just dont know if hed like -- this is off the record -- if he wants to sit down. Interest rates will be moving up one-eighth of a point --
Right? Yeah, exactly. And then you leave. By the way, then the market crashes and it goes through the roof. You know, what you say. And then he goes off and hell play golf and relax for the next 30 or --
Yeah, there are people that are highly respected that I would certainly think about. I dont know that Gary would want it. I think Gary loves what hes doing, you know, and hes doing a very good job.
You want to comment?
Yeah.
Yes.
No, but I can say that were going to be very involved with the U.K. I mean, you dont hear the word Britain anymore. Its very interesting. Its like, nope.
Is Scotland going to go for the vote, by the way? You dont see it. It would be terrible. They just went through hell.
They just went through hell.
What do you think? You dont think so, right?
One little thing, what would they do with the British Open if they ever got out? Theyd no longer have the British Open.
Scotland. Keep it in Scotland.
By the way, are you a member there?
I thought that course showed well.
I -- well, I saw his first four holes. And I said, man, thats the end of that, because -- you know?
So for a guy to go -- you know, to me, thats almost worse than, like, a triple bogey, because -- but for a guy to go through these horrible holes, hit a bad drive like Ive never seen -- I mean, he was 150 yards right. I dont know what that --
No, no, but for -- I know, but for a tour pro it was very unusual. But for a guy to then go birdie, eagle, birdie, birdie, thats a special --
Well, hes actually sort of -- hes in with Tiger and Jack. Hes essentially even, you know, with a number of terms and a number of majors.
Yeah. I have a great relationship --
Yeah.
We have a very good relationship. I have a very good relationship with the prime minister. And we are absolutely looking to do a major trade deal.
As soon as its appropriate to have it kick in, absolutely. And itll be a big trade deal -- much, much more business than we do right now, many, many times.
Therell be certain pieces. Its not -- therell be certain pieces. I mean, one of the things that -- I have a very good relationship with the EU people and all, but they are very, very protectionist. You know, our farmers and others cant even deal with -- you know, you cant sell in. Its very unfair. And thats what Ive been talking about for a long time. Its so stacked against the United States. Now, the EU was conceived to the point that they wanted to do something to compete with the United States. Well, you know, you could say thats a friendly act or an unfriendly act. But its very protectionist. Among the most, we have farm products that you just cant get into the EU. And we dont do that to them.
Well, Ill tell you, you know, I did -- I did thing that nobody even wrote about -- although, you did.  But when I was with President Xi, who I have a very good relationship with, I said: Do me a favor. Would you allow cattle, please, to come in? I was last night in West Virginia, and I had farmers coming up to me and hugging me and kissing me because of the cattle stuff. They actually werent from West Virginia; they were from other places.  But, you know, it was the Boy Scouts, so they came from all over the country, but --
Yeah. It would include everything.
Oh, no, it would be very -- it would be -- it would be very all-in with --
Thats up to them. But were going to have a very good relationship with the U.K. And we do have to talk to the European Union, because its not a reciprocal deal, you know.
The word reciprocal, to me, is very important. For instance, we have countries that charge us 100 percent tax to sell a Harley-Davidson into that country. And yet, they sell their motorcycles into us, or their bikes, or anything comparable, and we charge them nothing. There has to be a reciprocal deal. Im all about that. And you know, its very interesting, at the border -- people may have problems with border, but when you say reciprocal, everybody says, oh, thats fair. So people have a problem with charging a 10 percent tax, which they shouldnt have but they do. But when you say youre going to charge reciprocal charge -- in other words, what they charge were going to charge -- all of a sudden these same people -- it might be much more money -- but these same people, all of a sudden theyre OK with it. So we have got to be much smarter.
You know, our country was built, to a large extent, on protecting our manufacturers. If you go back to Jefferson, you go back to all of these great, great people that ran the United States properly, it was really based on a certain form of tariff and a certain form of protection. Were just the opposite now. Were the people that are getting beat up -- one of the reasons I think Im talking to -- Im sitting behind this beautiful desk as opposed to somebody else.
Well, were waiting -- were waiting till we get everything completed. We dont want to do at this moment. Were going to -- were going to wait till we get everything completed here. Were going to see. Its a very unfair situation. Theyre dumping steel in our country. Its extremely unfair. But we like to keep it as simple as -- we like to keep very complicated subjects as simple as possible. So were waiting till we get everything finished up between health care and taxes and maybe even infrastructure. But were going to be addressing the steel dumping at a very -- fairly soon.
We -- just so you understand -- we have massive reports. You know, a lot of this stuff you cant just walk in and say Im going to do this. You have to do statutory studies. And then you have to wait 90 days. And then you have to do another. And you have to wait another 20 days. It doesnt go that quickly. Its like NAFTA. You know, you have a six-month termination. I was ready to terminate NAFTA. I was looking forward to it, frankly, because NAFTAs a horrible deal for the United States. And then I got a call from the president of Mexico, whos a terrific guy, and I got a call from the prime minister of Canada. And they heard I was getting ready to terminate it. And they said: Would you have a meeting with us first? I said, yes. And if you look at my speeches, Ive always said, either renegotiate it or terminate it.
Now, renegotiating it is easier. And were in the midst of a renegotiation right now. So well see. And maybe well have to terminate it. I happen to think NAFTAs one of the truly bad deals -- I mean, outside of the Iran deal, which is one of the worst deals in history --
It may be salvageable.
I would say -- I would say it may be salvageable. But certainly, I have an obligation to give it a shot.
Im looking for fairness.
No, it means -- look, our automobile industry has just left us and gone to Mexico -- I mean, a big chunk of it. And its very unfair for them to take our companies, built their cars, and then sell the car back into our country with no tax. Its very unfair. They fire all our people in Michigan and Ohio, and they take it, and they build a car. And now they sell the car back in with no tax. Its not fair.
We have a $70 billion trade deficit with China, as an example.
Hes not thrilled. But thats OK. I wasnt thrilled about what he said to me.
Oh, theres not much to disagree with. Look, we have a $70 billion -- we have a $70 billion trade deficit. What is anybody saying? With China, we have 350 to 504. Nobody can really define it, deficit. We have a trade deficit of $350 to $504 billion each year. Were not going to be -- its just not going to happen that way anymore.
Well, were doing major studies. Oh, I would be very surprised if they will be -- look, weve been extremely nice to them. Weve been extremely nice to them in saying they were compliant, OK? Weve given them the benefit of every doubt. But were doing very detailed studies. And personally, I have great respect for my people. If it was up to me, I would have had them noncompliant 180 days ago.
Personally, I do. I do.
I think theyll be noncompliant. I think theyre taking advantage of this country. Theyve taken advantage of a president, named Barack Obama, who didnt know what the hell he was doing. And I do not expect that they will be compliant.
Oh, sure. Sure. Look, I have a lot of respect for Rex and his people, good relationship. Its easier to say they comply. Its a lot easier. But its the wrong thing. They dont comply. And so well see what happens. I mean, well talk about this subject in 90 days. But, yeah, I would be -- I would be surprised if they were in compliance.
So far I cant say that, right?
Im disappointed in Jeff Sessions, yes.
Number one, they should go after the leakers in intelligence. I dont mean the White House stuff where theyre fighting over who loves me the most, OK?  Its just stupid people doing that.
I know, thats just -- and Anthony will handle that.  I can -- Anthony can do that out of his back pocket, OK? Im talking about intelligence leaks. Im talking like the story about Syria that was in The New York Times the other day. Im -- which by the way, was a decision made by people, not me. But, you know, they wrote it 100 -- it was in the --
It was in The Washington Post. That was not something that I was involved in, other than they did come and they suggested. It turns out its -- a lot of al-Qaida were giving these weapons to. You know, they didnt write the truthful story, which they never do. So all of those things are very important. But, no, Im very disappointed in the fact that the Justice Department has not gone after the leakers. And theyre the ones that have the great power to go after the leakers, you understand. So -- and Im very disappointed in Jeff Sessions.
Look, Jeff -- I could. But well see what happens. But I was -- I appointed a man to a position. And then shortly after he gets the position, he recused himself. I said, whats that all about? Why didnt you tell me that you were going to do that, and I wouldnt have appointed you? But I appointed him. And shortly thereafter, he recused himself. So I think that is a --
Well, I didnt -- I wouldnt have wanted to. But I see the way they go after us on a witch hunt, you know? The Russian -- the Russian storys all an excuse for the Democrats losing. In fact, if you read the book, "Shattered," they have a whole chapter where they sat the day after the election and they said: Yeah, Russia. It was Russia. And, you know, Trump was involved. OK, the one thing interesting, you never heard me even associated with anybody. But, no, thats a total witch hunt, the whole Russia story. Its a hoax. Its a hoax. We had no collusion with Russia. We never dealt with Russia.
People that were on the campaign, like Corey, came in yesterday. It was very interesting. He was being interviewed. He said -- I was watching, Corey Lewandowski -- he says: I was here from the beginning. And I must be honest with you, I never dealt with any Russians. He was only the campaign manager. I can even look at Hope. She was here from virtually the same day that Corey started, those two. Hope, how many Russians have you seen involved in the campaign, OK?
OK? You know, I mean, its sad. So they do that. And I say, thats fine. But then we should really look at real crimes, because real crimes are what Hillary did with 33,000 emails, where she deleted them and bleached them after getting a subpoena. Real crimes are whats happening and what happened with the uranium deal. And also -- I mean, you can say the speeches made while she was secretary of state where they paid her a fortune, Podesta owning a big company in Russia -- they talk about me. I have nothing to do with Russia.
You know, I put out a letter from a very -- from the biggest law firm saying Trump has no involvement with Russia. I dont. I have no involvement. I mean, I had Ms. Universe there, like, nine years ago, eight years ago, something like that. But I have nothing to do with Russia. So -- and its very funny, because all of these people that have been on the campaign, some of them right from the beginning -- Anthonys another example. Youve been there. You know --
You know, Anthony came in to see me before it all began. And he said, I want to back you for president. This was before the June 16th day. I said, Anthony, Im not really sure that Im running. Im not sure. I may, but Im not sure. He said, you got to run, you got to run. I want to endorse you. I said, but Im not sure. This was a few months earlier than when I ran. And he was leaving and he was disappointed. I say, Anthony, what are you going to do? He goes, I got to back somebody, because thats the way he is. Thats his personality. And he went to a very good guy named Walker.
Then I came after the hedge fund business. So he wasnt in love with me for a short period of time. And he backed Bush. And that was OK. But his first choice was Trump. I think its important to say that because, you know. Is that a true story, by the way?
Give me those notes, Hope, come on, just give -- I cant read it. What do you think, I have 20/20 perfect --
Huh?
Oh, yeah, I self-funded much of my --
Im just very disappointed in him. Im disappointed in, you know, a number of categories. I told you, the leakers. He should have -- he should be after them. So many people say to me: Why are they going after you on nothing and they leave Hillary Clinton alone on, you know, really major things? And it is -- so Im disappointed in him. And dont forget, when they say he endorsed me, I went to Alabama. I had 40,000 people, you may have been there, remember, in Mobile?
I had 40,000 people. He was the senator from Alabama. I won the state by a lot, massive numbers. A lot of the states I won by massive numbers. But he was a senator. He looks at 40,000 people and he probably says, what do I have to lose, and he endorsed me. So its not like a great, loyal thing about the endorsement. But Im very disappointed in Jeff Sessions.
Im just looking at it. Ill just see.
Its a very important, very important thing.
Well, were going to see.
No, were going to see. I mean, I have no comment yet, because its too early. But well see. Were going to see. Heres the good news: I was never involved with Russia. There was nobody in the campaign. Ive got 200 people that will say that theyve never seen anybody on the campaign. Heres another -- he was involved early. Theres nobody on the campaign that saw anybody from Russia. We had nothing to do with Russia. They lost an election and they came up with this as an excuse. And the only ones that are laughing are the Democrats and the Russians. Theyre the only ones that are laughing. And if Jeff Sessions didnt recuse himself, we wouldnt even be talking about this subject.
You know, it was very interesting. Trey Gowdy said today -- again, hes a very straight shooter, hes a good guy -- he said, no, I understand the president. He was on Fox. He said: I understand the president. You put a man in office who really wanted that job. I actually said to him -- and you know some of my lawyers, its not -- you know, off the record, its not exactly -- right? You know some of them.
Well, but a lot of them. But I put a man in office -- and he said this. And he goes in office, then he immediately recuses himself. I fully understand the president. You know, and a lot of people do, a lot of people. He -- you know, I dont go to loyalty. I think its disloyal to the office of the presidency, not necessarily me. I think its very disloyal to the office of the presidency. And if he didnt do that, you wouldnt have all this stuff. You know, you wouldnt have it.
So, just a couple of things before we finish. Just -- Im sure you love Stuart Varney. But he just came out, $4 trillion in value in the stock market. RNC has more than 80 million in cash, whereas the Democrats owe money, OK, although theyre trying to come up with their new campaign. Trust me, it wont work. And I said it the last time  . Immigration went down 78 percent at the border -- 78 percent at the border. Kellys done a great job.
Well, I havent seen them yet. I havent seen them in final form. I will say this, Congress, if theyre going to negotiate, they make the worst deals Ive ever seen. They made NAFTA. They made -- you know, they allowed the Iran deal to go through.
I make good deals. I dont make bad deals. I make good deals. So, but, I havent made my -- I have not seen them. I have to see.
By the way, a lot of things have taken place in that agreement that are a lot different from what it was two weeks ago -- a lot of things.
I mean, well see. Well see. I do say this, I believe weve done more than just about any president of the United States in six months. And I was going to tell you before, so a lot of times Ill turn on television or Ill read in The Wall Street Journal, right --
-- whats Trump doing? He hasnt produced health care. Im not even six months yet, right? So these guys went eight years -- Hillary Clinton, eight years, got nothing. Obama went a year and a half, almost two years, and they had to sell their soul. They had to give away the state of Nebraska in order to buy that vote. And that was two years. Im six months. They got to give me a little break, OK? And today were having a big vote, and well see what happens. But todays vote is big, because once you get in -- once youre allowed to talk a lot of --
No, I dont think so.
But Im very happy with Anthony. I think Anthony is going to do amazing.
You know what? I dont even think of pardons. Heres why, nobody did anything wrong. Look at Jared, everybody -- we do appreciate the editorial -- but everybody said Jared Kushner. Jareds a very private person. He doesnt get out. I mean, maybe its good or maybe its bad what I do, but at least people know how I feel. Jareds this really nice, smart guy, whod love to see peace in the Middle East and in Israel, OK?
Im thinking about it. What do you think? Do you like him?
