Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Signs the Tax Bill at The White House|December 22, 2017
Good morning, everybody. Thank you very much for being here, and Merry Christmas, Happy New Year. Have great holidays. We are going to sign some very important things today. One is a continuing resolution that very importantly gives us the right, and we are ordering $4 billion worth of missile defense equipment and missiles themselves. Very important. Top of the line. Best in the world. We make the best military product in the world, and nobody is even close.
And so were ordering $4 billion worth of missile defense, and that will be done by signing right here and also by notifying the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate, designating the missile defense as emergency defense fund. So its $4 billion for that and $700 million for various other military forms of equipment. And Im very honored to be doing that. Our military has been doing a fantastic job in so many ways, with ISIS. And everything theyre touching lately has been working out. So were signing that.
This is the letter to Mitch McConnell and, separately, to Paul Ryan, authorizing that having to do with missile defense. Very important. So thats being done today, and thats going to be sent out.
And then, when I watched the news -- as you know, we had the largest tax cuts in our history just approved. And I was going to wait for a formal signing sometime in early January, but then I watched the news this morning and they were all saying, "Will he keep his promise? Will he sign it by Christmas?"" You were one. But will he sign it by Christmas?"" And I called downstairs
We were going to wait until January 7th or 8th and do a big, formal ceremony, but every one of the networks was saying, "Will he keep his promise? Will he sign it before Christmas?"" And so I immediately called
As you know, $3.2 trillion in tax cuts for American families, including the doubling of the standard deduction and the doubling of the Child Tax Credit. The typical family of four earning $75,000 will see an income tax cut of more than $2,000 -- many much higher than that -- slashing their tax bill in half. And theyre going to start to see that. Because were signing today, theyre going to start to see that in February. The numbers will speak.
One of the big things that happened -- you have some companies. I want to thank AT&T, who actually was the first out of the box, and Boeing, and Sinclair, and Wells Fargo, and Comcast -- even though they own NBC, which is not so nice to the presidency or the President. But Comcast also. They all have made tremendous contributions to their employees and tremendous contributions to spending money on this country because of the tax bill.
And they all said its because of the tax bill. So theyre making tremendous investments. That means jobs; it means a lot of things. And were very happy. So thats AT&T, Boeing, Sinclair, Wells Fargo, Comcast, and now many other companies who you see. In fact, just this morning, I see three more companies came on.
A friend of mine, Bob Kraft, called me last night, and he said this tax bill is incredible. He owns the New England Patriots, but hes in the paper business too. And he said, based on this tax bill, he just wanted to let me know that hes going to buy a big plant in the great state of North Carolina, and hes going to build a tremendous paper mill there, or paper products plant.
And Ive had many calls such as that, where people that are entrepreneurs, people in businesses, theyre going out and theyre going to buy, frankly, factories that are closed, abandoned, and now theyre not going to be abandoned any longer. This is having an even bigger impact, faster than I thought.
The corporate tax rate, as you know, will be lowered from 35 to 21 percent. That means that more products will be made in the USA. A lot of things are going to be happening in the USA. Were going to bring back our companies. Theyve already started coming back. I think they had certain confidence in me and they figured we were going to get this done. But they have already started.
Something very important to me -- the family farmers and small-business owners who lost their business because of the estate tax. Most of them wont have any estate tax to pay. It will be a great thing for their families. You can leave your farm to your family. You could leave your business, your small business to your family -- not even so small, because the numbers are pretty big here. So theyll be exempt from having to pay an estate tax, which will be tremendous. Theyll keep their farms and their businesses in the family.
Businesses will be able to deduct 100 percent of the cost of their capital investments in the year the investment is made. Thats called expensing. And to do one-year expensing, I think, is going to be one of the biggest things in the bill, frankly. I think people are going to go out and absolutely go wild over expensing. Bob Kraft mentioned that last night in his telephone call. The fact that they can expense -- do one-year expensing is a fantastic asset.
Historic small-business tax cuts and pass-throughs now are made really, really good for the business owner. Theyre hiring people. I see it on television. I’m reading about it all over where people are hiring a lot of people right now to go to work. The small-business tax cut and the pass-throughs are now really incentivizing people.
Were going to bring back probably $4 trillion from overseas. Nobody knows the exact number, but it’s massive. It will be over $3 trillion; it could be $5 trillion. But it’s a tremendous amount of money that was caught overseas that the bureaucracy plus the tax laws didnt allow it to reasonably be brought back into our country. So we think at least $4 trillion is going to be brought back.
And if you look at that, it’s going to be brought back right under the code. This is something that Republicans wanted for years and Democrats wanted for years, and yet it never got done. Who would object to trillions of dollars being brought back into our country? Nobody. But it never got done. Now it’s being done.
And the bottom line is, this is the biggest tax cuts and reform in the history of our country. This is bigger than, actually, President Reagan’s many years ago. I’m very honored by it.
In addition, we have ANWR -- were opening up ANWR for drilling. Theyve tried to get that for 40 years. Theyve tried to get that even during the Reagan administration. They could never get it. That alone would be a big bill if that ever happened, but thats even part of this.
And we have, of course, the individual mandate, which is a very unfair and very unpopular provision, as you know, in Obamacare. Essentially, I think it ultimately leads to the end of Obamacare. Essentially, I think Obamacare is over because of that, and were going to come up with something thats really going to be very good.
But the individual mandate was very unfair because youre basically saying, pay for something in order not to have to get healthcare. So youre paying -- youre paying not to have to have healthcare. It was very unfair. Many people thought it should have been overturned in the Supreme Court. It didnt quite make it. Almost -- but didnt quite make it. But now were overturning the individual mandate, the most unpopular thing in Obamacare. Very, very unfair.
So this is the bill right here, and were very proud of it. It’s going to be a tremendous thing for the American people. It’s going to be fantastic for the economy. It’s going to keep companies from leaving our shores and opening up in other countries. They are very dis-incentivized to do that. There’s not -- a lot of not a sense to do that. You do that, and I dont think youre going to be running your company very well.
So what’s happening is were going to sign this. This is a little picture of it. It fits nicely in the box. I said, take it out of the box because people have to see.
And all of this -- everything in here -- is really tremendous things for businesses, for people, for the middle class, for workers. And I consider this very much a bill for the middle class and a bill for jobs. And jobs are produced through companies and corporations, and you see that happening. Corporations are literally going wild over this, I think even beyond my expectations, so far beyond my expectations.
So I’ll sign this today rather than having a very big formal ceremony in two weeks when we were going to do it, because I didnt want you folks to say that I wasn’t keeping my promise. I am keeping my promise. I’m signing it before Christmas. I said that the bill would be on my desk before Christmas, and you are holding me literally to that, so we did a rush job today. It’s not fancy, but it’s the Oval Office. It’s the great Oval Office.
And just to conclude: Our country is doing very well. Weve tremendously cut regulations. Legislative approvals, for which I’m given no credit in the mainstream media -- we have, I believe, it’s 88, which is number one in the history of our country. Second now is Harry Truman. Harry Truman had more legislative approvals than any other President and -- a record long held. And we beat him on legislative approvals, for which I get no credit.
A lot of people say he needed this because he has had no legislative approvals. Well, if you look at VA Accountability Act and so many other bills having to do with the VA; having to do with the military; having to do with many things -- we have more legislative victories than any other President, not including this. But this is the capper because this is, again, the biggest tax cut, the biggest reform of all time.
So it’s an honor to have you with us, and we will sign this right now. This is something I’m very proud of. Great for our country, great for the American people. Thank you all.
So we won’t do the whole thing, but this is basically what it is. Thats your bill. And I want to thank some people in particular that aren’t here, because, again, we expected a formal ceremony in two weeks. But Mitch McConnell has been fantastic, worked so hard. He would speak at 3:00 in the morning and 2:00 in the morning. And we would speak whenever we had to speak. But he worked so hard.
And the exact same thing can be said for Paul Ryan. They are very proud of this, and were already seeing the results. And as I said long before -- long ahead of schedule. Paul Ryan, Mitch McConnell, thank you very much.
Orrin Hatch, the Chairman, made a beautiful speech the other day in front of the White House, an absolutely brilliant, beautiful speech. And we appreciated it, and I appreciated it. Hardworking. Kevin Brady, I dont think he slept for months. It’s almost like thats all he did was this.
Mike Enzi, Senator Enzi. Diane Black. Rob Portman -- the group of Rob Portman. Rob worked so hard; so knowledgeable on the subject. Pat Toomey, likewise. Tim Scott, likewise. John Thune, likewise. These people worked so hard. And I dont know if theyre given the proper credit.
And the whole Senate -- when I say the Senate, unfortunately the Republicans in the Senate. Democrats dont like tax cuts. They want to raise your taxes; they dont want to lower your taxes. They want to raise your taxes, and they want to spend money foolishly on things that we dont need, in many cases.
So were cutting taxes, were taking care of our military, and were taking care of people. And were really doing a job on jobs.
So these folks have been so fantastic that I had to call them up -- and plenty of others, believe me. Republicans in the House and Republicans in the Senate have been incredible. So this is what we get. We had it, it was set to go. As soon as I get back from Christmas, where well be working in Florida -- Ill be working very hard during that Christmas because we have many things were talking about, including North Korea, including a lot of things happening in the Middle East, as you know.
Weve made tremendous strides -- obviously in Syria, with ISIS. Weve taken back virtually all of the caliphate, all of the land. Same thing in Iraq. And were making tremendous strides -- its sort of the unwritten story right now. But since my speech on Afghanistan, were making tremendous progress, tremendous strides. Weve opened it up and its a whole different world in Afghanistan, I can tell you that.
So Ill be working very hard over the holidays. Again, I want to wish you a very merry Christmas. I have some beautiful pens over here. And because all of these folks are either continuing to work down the road or getting ready to leave -- and Im sure theyll be working very hard also -- I think Im probably going to hand some of them to the press. The media -- would any of the media like any of -- oh, look at these camera guys. But I think well do that. So we have them.
Many of you have worked very hard. Many of you have worked very, very fairly, and we really appreciate that. So here you go folks. You want the box with it, or not? Huh?
I dont think Im going to have to travel too much to sell it. I think its selling itself. Its becoming very popular, but I think it will really -- youll see something on February 1st, when they open up the paycheck. Thats when youre going to start to see it. Because by signing it now, it kicks in for this year.
Remember, if we didnt make a certain date, it wouldnt kick in until next year; meaning, the following year -- 19. And I wasnt happy with that. So we worked very, very hard to make sure it was this year. Even language originally said the corporate would kick in 19, but we didnt do that. We have it kicking in now, but we had to sign.
So I dont think were going to have to do much selling. I think the corporations that are giving billions and billions of dollars away to their workers -- and many more are coming -- I think thats really whats selling this maybe better than anybody could, including myself. But I think come February, when they open their checks and they see, "Wow
So have a great holiday, folks. Some of you folks take -- I, in particular, like the boom holders. They were so nice to me the other day, right?  And the cameramen -- and the cameramen.
I think the Democrats will really regret -- the Democrats already regret it. You know, they have their typical thing -- "Its for the rich."" They know thats not true. And theyve been called out on it by the media
Weve spent $7 trillion in the Middle East, not to mention all of the lives and all of the heartache, and its so sad. Seven trillion dollars. Its time for us to rebuild our country. Thank you very much, everybody.
Infrastructure is the easiest of all. Were very well on our way. Weve essentially repealed Obamacare. You know, the individual mandate is a very big factor in this bill, frankly. A lot of people dont talk about it because the tax code is so important. But infrastructure is by far the easiest. People want it -- Republicans and Democrats. Were going to have tremendous Democrat support on infrastructure, as you know.
I could have started with infrastructure. I actually wanted to save the easy one for the one down the road. So well be having that done pretty quickly. Thank you all very much.
You know, one thing I really learned is, I learned, and got to know and became very friendly with, the people in the House, the people in the Senate -- both Republicans and Democrats. When I came, I didnt know too many. I was very politically active but I didnt know too many.
I think the fact that Ive become with friends with so many of the names that I just read off, and so many of the senators, so many of the congressmen and women, I think thats a huge factor. I can call anybody now. I know every one of them very well. And I understand the legislation very well.
So, you know, its been a process. Its been a great process. Really beautiful. But I do believe that the fact that I have gotten to know so many of these people -- and many of these people, I have to say -- not saying all, but Im saying many of these people are great people that truly love this country. So I think that helps. And I think youll see that in this legislation.
