Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Cleveland Heights, OH|September 21, 2016
Theres only one Don King. Only one Don. I want to thank you very much. And Don, that was so special. I spoke to Don yesterday, said how about taking a trip to Cleveland? He said, "I love Cleveland." This is this place. And I said Id love to have you introduce me. And he was right there, and we left at six oclock in the morning.
He was right there, and hes an amazing guy, and hes been a friend of mine for a long time. And I dont want to say hes a good guy because I dont want to destroy his reputation. But he is a good guy. Hes a phenomenal person. And he became very rich. Hes very smart. He took advantage of lots of situations.
And I have great respect for that. And I have great respect for him. And I want to thank Don for being here. Thank you, Don. I want to certainly thank my friend, Darrell Scott, whos just an amazing guy. Amazing guy. I met Darrell through Michael, and then I saw Darrell on television. I called Michael, I said, "This man is fantastic.
Where do you find somebody like this? I have to really get to know him a little better, " and I have gotten to know him better and he is a spectacular. And I watch him on television, and I feel so sorry for the people that are on the other side of the tape, because Ive only seen you about 100 times, so far, nobody else has won.
He knows how to win, and he loves you folks. I will tell you that. He loves you folks and he loves this church. So Darrell, thank you very much, I appreciate it. Pastor Scott. Pastor Scott. And Michael, thank you not only for the introduction, but also for a beautiful speech. I think Michael worked very hard on that speech.
Ben Carson has been my friend for a long time, and he was tough. He was tough. Where is he? He was tough. Ill tell you what, I was doing really well, but there was one guy in the pack, every week, Id look at those polls. So Ben, was it -- I was at 28th, 29th. Ben was like at 10. Then the next week, he was at 12. And I had to be so nice.
Hes such an incredible guy. And then he was at 14 and 16 and 20, and he went to 21, 24. I said what do we do to stop this guy? He was a force, and he was so nice. He did better than anybody, I will tell you. He did better than anybody. He was -- he was amazing. Ill tell you what, he was amazing. And hes got -- not only is he a brilliant guy, but hes got a brilliant heart -- he loves people.
And if all of this happens, there will be a great place for Ben. I dont know if he wants that, but I know he wants to help people. But there will be a great place. And General Flynn, another man whos just so into. Where is he? Oh, boy. There is a tough general. I always talk about MacArthur. Im a a big fan of General Douglas MacArthur and General George Patton, and if they saw what was going on today with all the butchery and all of the problems, theyre spinning in their grave right now the way we fight.
We have to end that problem, and this is a man that knows how to end problems. And General Flynn along with General Kellogg and some of our other friends, we have so many friends. We have over 200 generals and admirals supporting us now. Can you imagine that? I didnt know they had that many. I didnt know they had that many generals.
But weve had. And then the other day, you probably saw that we had 17 Congressional Medal of Honor winners endorsed me. So we had the admirals, we had the generals, and we had the Congressional Medal of Honor winners, and its been its been really an amazing period of time. So I just want to thank everybody.
And I want to thank the African-American community because I dont know if youve been watching, but the poll numbers are going like a rocket ship to me. I think initially, when I was very low, I think initially, they didnt know what to expect. And as I spoke about the inner cities which are in such trouble, and I spoke about instances like were having today with Charlotte and Tulsa and problems, and we want to see that unify as quickly as possible.
Those are two problems that we have to get that unified and taken care of. Its sad to see. But as I spoke about the inner cities and what Ill do -- and its interesting because I went down a list of problems in the inner cities, and Id said this three or four times before, and I go down the list and we talk about the incredible crime.
Incredible. Chicago, I think, has had 3,000 shootings, as an example, from just the beginning of the year. 3,000. Thousands of people are being killed, and its very horrible. But I talked about the crime. I talked about the lack of education, the bad schools. And I talked about jobs. The jobs are just so bad.
And I said it three, four, five times, and then one day, I said, "What do you have to lose? I mean, what do you have to lose? Im going to fix it. What do you have to lose?" And somehow, that resonated. Some people didnt like it. But I said, "What difference does it make?" I mean, its true. Why do you have to lose?
And it resonated. And its been amazing how its resonated because its true, the Democrats have run the inner cities for, in some cases, up to 100 years unbroken. Unbroken. And were very different. Im different. And Im different from a lot of Republicans, frankly. And thats why were winning states that arent even in play for other Republicans.
Were -- I mean, as an example, somebody said were up in Maine. Maines not a state where Republicans are exactly, you know, flocking to, but were up in Maine. Its an amazing, amazing thing. Were doing great in Connecticut. Were doing great all over, actually. So were winning Florida. Were winning Ohio.
I see were winning North Carolina. Applause were winning were winning. Its just an amazing thing. Were winning Colorado. Were up four points. And were up in other places that are just amazing places and great and were thrilled we just had a very good poll from New Mexico. New Mexico. So were winning areas that are not usually areas that people consider in play.
Thats why youre seeing the board -- you remember the board three, four weeks ago, the whole electoral map. Well, Trump has a very -- now, all of a sudden, all these states are opening up. Theyre saying, "Wait a minute, whats going on here?" Then theyre writing about it. And we are working very, very hard.
And hopefully, at the end. And I want to also, I have to thank Mike Pence. What an unbelievable person this is. And you know the first time I met Mike. I liked him a lot. And he was very much considered that this was going to be his position. A lot of people wanted him to run. Hes done all right. Hes run incredibly in Indiana, very, very popular.
Has one of the most successful states, have a AAA bond rating. Their taxes have gone down. Their employment has been incredible. And they brought companies in one of the few places that has actually brought companies. Its been a great story. And the story hes done is incredible. But the first time I met him, we had a wonderful meeting, lasted 20 minutes, and I actually asked him for his endorsement because I was running in Indiana which we wanted a landslide with.
And he couldnt do that because of the fact that he had other commitments, and he endorsed Ted Cruz. But the next day, when he made the endorsement, I thought it was more of an endorsement for me, because he started talking about how great Donald Trump is. Then he said Im voting for Ted Cruz. And lets get back to Donald Trump.
The guys unbelievable. In fact, Ted Cruz didnt know whether or not he was endorsed. Most people thought he endorsed me. I thought it was more  but I liked him. I liked him regardless. I liked him. He said something after that first 15 or 20 minutes left. And he said, "Donald, may we pray?" Now, that doesnt happen too often coming from New York when I leave an office.
Its usually like they have bad thoughts. Believe me. Bad, bad thoughts. But he said -- did you know that, he said, "May we pray?" Now, Darrells really inspired by Mike, but Mike is great. And we did pray. And Mike is great, and his family Karen and the family are incredible. So that was a really good choice.
I wrote some things out that I think so much about. Thank you. Thank you. Stand up, Mike. Karen, stand up. Amazing. Hes been an amazing partner. And hes all over the place. Yesterday, he was in Virginia, and it was a downpour. They had a great group of people, and it was -- I never want them to get the kind of crowds I get because Ill probably then get angry at him and jealous.
But hell teach me not to be jealous. Something Darrells gonna work on. But he had a great crowd yesterday in Virginia, and there was this massive downpour, like record-type setting. And they were all outside, I guess, on a lawn, and they were drenched and he said -- called me up, he said nobody left. And the press actually covered it. They said nobody left.
Theyve never seen anything like it. And thats a good sign, because I think were gonna do really well in Virginia, too. So thats a good sign. So Michael, thank you, and very special, very special guy. And Omarosa -- dont leave, Omarosa. Shes a wonderful woman.. Dont leave .Shes a wonderful woman. She has done so much for me with the African-American community, with communities generally.
And shes another one. She is such a fine person, and nobody knows it. And I just blew her income for the next 20 years. You are amazing, okay? And I just want to thank you very much for everything youve done. She worked so hard. She feels so strongly. Thank you. Omarosa. I mean, I did help make her a star, in all fairness.
I dont feel so guilty. So thank you. I wrote some things out having to do largely with inner cities, and the inner city right here. And Ill read it out for you. But I feel very strongly about it. So much can be done. So much can be done, and its not being done. They come and they take your vote, and then they say, well see you in four years.
Thanks a lot, and well see you in four years. And were going to do it a lot differently. For centuries the African-American church has been the conscience of our country. Its from the pews pulpits and Christian teachings of black churches all across the land that the civil rights movement lifted up the soul of our nation.
Its from these pews that our nation has been inspired toward a better moral character, a deeper concern for mankind and a spirit of charity and unity that binds us all together. The African-American faith community has been one of Gods greatest gifts to America and to the American people. There is perhaps no action our leaders can take.
That would do more to heal, and I mean heal our country and support our people, than to provide a greater platform, stronger, greater, to the black churches and church goers. I was in Detroit recently with Bishop Jackson who is an incredible guy also. And it was incredible what I saw. The love in that room, and Im not saying the love for me. Im just saying the love in that room for everybody, and the spirit.
Even the song. His wife is a beautiful singer with a magnificent. It was just amazing. I didnt want to leave. So its great. You do right every day by your community and your family. You raise children in the light of God. I will always support your church and defend your right to worship always. I will always be there.
As I am here today to listen to your message, and I hope my presence here will help. And very much help your voice to reach new audiences. Its going to happen in our country. And these are people, believe me, many people out there that desperately need it. Christian faith is not the past but the present and the future.
It is the foundation of progress. And I pledge to you that if I win -- some people say if and when, lets say if, because we have to be realistic, close race. But if you all go out and vote, were going to win. But I pledge to you that were going to end the Johnson Amendment, which takes away the voice of your pastors, your ministers, your great leaders.
Takes away their voice. Were going to end quickly, quickly, the Johnson. Its so important. Thank you. Its taking away your voice. Passed in 1954 by a very powerful man, Lyndon Johnson. Because he didnt get along with a certain church, they say, in Houston. Because the pastor was maybe against him, maybe not with him.
Maybe something was going on. Shows you the power of Lyndon Johnson. No respect. You have to respect it. But he had this passed that takes away your leaders and your your people that you most respect. People like Pastor Darrell Scott. Hes not allowed to talk politics. If he does, they take away his tax exemption.
So what theyre doing is theyre silencing your leaders. Theyre silencing the people that you want to hear. Its not fair because theyre the people I want to hear also. So were going to get rid of the Johnson Amendment. As I campaigned all across this nation and in every community, I will have an opportunity to lay out my plans for economic change.
I will have a chance to discuss school choice, which is so important, and how to put every American on the ladder to success, meaning a great education and a great job. But today, I just want to let you know that I am here to listen. To you, Im going to listen. And Im always going to listen. Its a promise that I make.
Im running to be president for all Americans. Every single one. Our nation is too divided. We talk past each other constantly, not to each other. And to those who seek office, we do not do enough to step in to the community and learn what is happening and what is going on. They dont do it. Again, they want your vote and theyre gone.
Im here today to learn so that we can together remedy injustice in all of its many very unattractive forms. Our political system has failed the people and works only to enrich itself. I want to reform that system so that it works for you. All of you. I believe true reform can only come from outside the system, from outside the establishment.
Becoming the nominee of the party of Abraham Lincoln has been the greatest honor of my life. Its on his legacy that I hope to build the future of our party. I believe we need a civil rights agenda for our time. One that ensures the right to a good education and the right to live in safety and in peace. It also means the right -- so true.
So, so unsafe. When you see people being shot in the streets, walk into a store with their child. Oftentimes, their child being shot for no reason whatsoever. So sad. It also means the right to have a government that protects our workers and fights. for our jobs. I want to rebuild our country, and I want to rebuild our inner cities.
Its time. Its time. It breaks my heart to see any American left behind, or to see a city like Cleveland that has had so many struggles. Nothing is more sad than when we sideline young Americans with unfulfilled potential. You look at somebody like Don King where hes become so successful. He just broke that system.
He wouldnt take no. I mean, hes an amazing inspiration to so many people, including me. Our whole country loses. Were one nation. And when anyone hurts, we all hurt together. Thats the way it is. Thats the way it should be, too. We are all brothers and sisters, and were all created, everyone created by the same God.
We must love each other and support each other, and were all in this together. I fully understand that the African-American community has suffered from discrimination. And that there are many wrongs that must still be made right. I want to make America prosperous for everyone. I want to make this city the economic envy of the world.
Here, in Detroit and Baltimore, and theres so many places, we have so much work to do. Factories everywhere, new roads, new bridges, new schools, new hope. Were going to bring our jobs back. Our jobs have been taken away by inept politicians that dont know what theyre doing. Our companies have left and gone to Mexico and other places.
Were going to bring our jobs back. Believe me. And its not even going to be hard. I have been so greatly blessed and in so many ways. With no greater blessing than my family. I have a wonderful family. Nothing would make me happier and more fulfilled than to use what I have learned in business and in traveling the world -- I have been all over -- to bring wealth and prosperity and opportunity to those who have not had these opportunities before.
When I see wages falling and falling big lake, people were making more money 18 years ago, in many cases, than theyre making today. And today, theyre working harder, they have two jobs. Its not supposed to be that way. I know the hardships this inflicts, and I am determined to do something about it. Please know this: For any who are hurting, things are going to turn, and turn for the better.
We are going to win again as a country and we are going to win again for all of our people. Not just certain segments of our people, for all of our people. I want to work with you to renew the bonds of trust between citizens and the bonds of faith that make our nation strong. America has been lifted out of many of its most difficult hours through the miracle of faith.
And you people understand that very well. Everybody in this room understands, which is one of the reasons youre here. Now in these hard times for our country, let us turn again to our Christian heritage to lift up the soul of our nation. I am so deeply grateful to be here today. And its my prayer that America, and the America of tomorrow, will be one of unity, togetherness, peace, and love.
We can do that. Id like to conclude with a passage from first John, Chapter 4. No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us. And His love is made complete in us. So true. So Pastor, I want to thank you. I want to thank the congregation. This has been a really great honor for me. And we have some interesting days ahead.
We have a little debate on Monday night, a couple of you might be watching. Anybody going to watch the debate? And we have a very big election coming up on November 8. So hopefully, get out and vote. But again to the African-American community, to the Hispanic community, to all communities, I want to just say, were going to make it right.
Were going to make it great. Thank you. Thank you, all. Thank you, all.
Mr. Trump, we have a few questions. That -- come on give it up. We have some questions that we solicited from the pastors. We have pastors here from all over the great state of Ohio. Some drove a long distance, and we asked them some questions that we would like for you to answer. Question number one: Our failing public school systems are holding our children back.
What is your plan to help our children get access to the best possible education? And what is your view on school choice?
OK. We have to have choice. Choice is a must. And we have to end Common Core and bring education local. Common Core is a disaster. And were going to have great education in our country. We dont have it now. But choice, very important. Very, very important. And Common Core has to be ended. Were bringing education local.
Meaning, our loving parents and all of the professionals, were going to do it on a local basis, not with the bureaucrats, OK?
Mr. Trump our second question says, inner cities have been ravaged by violence and addiction. It has been spawned with tensions between law enforcement and our neighborhoods. How would you encourage peace and build safer communities?
Well one of the ways is places just like this. You see whats going on in this room. And you have -- everybody in this room. You have Asian. You have white. You have black. You have everybody right here. And you see whats happening. So I mean, that the churches are so important in all of our religious institutions.
And the other thing, we have to stop the drugs from pouring in from across the border. We have a tremendous drug problem in Cleveland and in Ohio and in North Carolina and South Carolina and in New Hampshire. Its a tremendous problem. Heroin, in particular, in New Hampshire. But we are -- our country is being poisoned, and its pouring across the Southern border.
And we are going to stop it, believe me. You know the Border Patrol agents are great. 16,500, they endorsed us recently and they endorsed Trump. First time theyve ever endorsed a presidential candidate. We are going to stop the drugs from poisoning our youth from pouring into our country, just poisoning our youth.
The African-American community has traditionally voted Democrat. I mean, to be honest we got strong opposition from the Democratic Party through the black community for this meeting, but they didnt stop at nothing here. Youre making a strong case for the Republican vote this year. How can the conservative agenda help all of our communities?
Well, you know its not even about a conservative agenda. Youve been trying and working in the inner cities with the Democrats for so many years, sometimes over 100 years, there are actually communities. And theyre a disaster. The schools, the safety, the jobs, its all horrible. I mean, in some cases, theyre less safe than places like Afghanistan.
You know we hear about Afghanistan. Some of the inner cities are less safe. So I just tell you this, we are going to make such headway. Such a change. And you know theyre not going to do it, because General, theyve been doing it for 50, 60, somewhere -- I mean, minimum is like 32, I think. Theres one city, 32, unbroken.
Unbroken. And I say that, and some people -- I told you before, some people love it and some people dont like it that much. What do you have to lose? Cant get any worse. It really cant. The inner cities cannot get much worse. Perhaps they can, but not much. And I will fix it. What do you have to lose?
I will fix it. So were going to change it.
Just just a couple of more. The No. 1 issue plaguing so many families is the lack of jobs. Our families are struggling to find work. How do you pledge to grow the economy and create jobs for America?
Well we have NAFTA, and these agreements, these trade deals are the worst deals anybody ever negotiated. NAFTA has destroyed our country, has destroyed our manufacturing. Our manufacturing is gone to Mexico and all these other countries, and were going to renegotiate those deals and were going to make them either very good and very fair, or were going to terminate them, well start all over again.
Believe me. Were going to bring our jobs back. Were going to bring our companies back that have left us, fired all their employees. Were going to bring them back. So that will be the thing. Maybe I originally started on that and illegal immigration. And we have to stop illegal immigration, by the way.
We have to stop illegal immigration. And Hillary Clinton is not, in any way shape or form, capable of doing that.
Two more -- this is a question that I believe each and every pastor in this room is concerned. Once this election is over, in what ways will you continue to engage the faith community when were not simply for votes or whatever, but will we have a continued access to the White House to speak what we perceive to be the voice of God, to you?
Well I can tell you a number of the ways are by getting you folks, Darrell, all of you, and Ben Carson and everybody, totally involved with the communities. Because right now, you dont have any involvement with Washington. Very little. And the involvement that you have, which is a Common Core, the involvement that you have is not a good involvement.
Were going to be very much involved with the inner cities, and were going to create incentives for the inner cities so that the inner cities can grow and produce jobs. And were gonna bring our jobs back from all these countries that have stolen them like were a bunch of babies. Its like candy being taken away from a baby.
Thats the way they took it. And were not going to let that happen anymore. Many of you folks have had great jobs, and you dont have it in where your company has gone. And youve never been able to replace that great job you had when you were younger. And we are going to bring our companies back and were going to bring our jobs back.
Believe me. It is, to a large extent, about jobs.
Mr. Trump, this is, for most of the pastors and leaders here, this is a very big question. Much hinges on this. The question says the next Supreme Court justice will make decisions that will touch the rights of every American that may come to define the nature of our government and our society for many years.
Will you stand strong on your suggested appointments and stay committed to naming only true constitutionalists to the bench?
Yes. The answer is yes. You know, as a -- 100%. 100%. Wow. Beautiful. Beautiful. You know, that question and that response is amazing, because I get it so many places. And youll hear about these never Trumpers Who are dying faster. Right now, theyre on a respirator, OK, because the unity is becoming incredible.
Just today in the Wall Street Journal, they have an amazing story about -- an amazing Wall Street Journal story today about all of the support that were getting from lots of rich people even, theyre coming in. You know these were never Trump, never Trump, never Trump, and now, theyre believing. They see lower taxes.
They see cutting the regulations. They see job creation, which is so important, and its really been amazing. And one of the things that they see and that you people see is that -- and so important, the judges. So I picked 11 judges. Very, very much into the world of the Constitution, because we have people that, in some cases, not -- I think in all cases, will have absolutely no -- the constitution will have no bearing on their decisions, OK? If somebody else gets it. And we picked 11, and were adding nine more.
Were gonna have a total of 20 people. And I will pick from that group of 20 people. These are 20 outstanding people. The rest of them, already 11 have been named. Were adding nine more who are terrific. Very much a Federalist society choices heritage and federalists, and theyre really really amazing judges.
And I will pick from that group. And these judges, you know, we lost Judge Scalia, and these judges are very much the mold of Judge Scalia. So I think its a very important. So important. So important, this election. Those people and those Republicans that arent helping, they should be ashamed of themselves.
They should be ashamed of themselves.
President of United States.
I know thats right. This is the final question. I just added it. Its a question that involves all Americans, not just black Americans. But its a question thats on everyones mind, and I feel honored to be able to ask you this question. And for you to answer it for the first time, to address it for the first time, because I know the media is here.
How are yall doing? And your response is going to reverberate around this planet. So you can take your time and think it through. What do you have to say about the recent shootings of unarmed black men by the police up to and including the shooting in North Carolina one yesterday and the shooting in Tulsa the day before?
Well as you know, Im a tremendous believer in the police and law enforcement because we need that for ourselves. And Ive really gotten the endorsement from so many different groups, and theyre great people. Theyre great people. Great people, you always have problems. You have somebody in there that either makes a mistake thats bad or that chokes.
I must tell you, I watched the shooting, in particular, in Tulsa. And that man was hands up. That man went to the car, hands up. Put his hand on the car. I mean, to me, it looked like he did everything youre supposed to do, and he looked like a really good man. And maybe Im a little clouded because I saw his family talking about him after the fact.
So you get a little bit different image maybe. But to me, he looked like a, you know, somebody that was doing what they were asking him to do. And this young officer. I dont know what she was thinking. I dont know what she was thinking. But Im very, very troubled by that. Im very, very troubled by that.
And we have to be very, very careful. So I mean, these things are terrible. That was, in my opinion, that was a terrible, terrible situation. And weve seen others. Weve seen others. And the police are aware of that, too. By the way, the police are troubled by it. They look at it. Now, did she get scared?
