Donald Trump|Interview: Steve Scully of C|SPAN Interviews Donald Trump at The White House
So I think probably in terms of a learning curve, its a little patience, it doesnt go as quickly as it can do and as you do in private. But, not that much different than I expected. Weve accomplished a lot, I think, you know, I go around saying, Steve, that weve accomplished more maybe than any president has in two and a half years.
But Ive loved every minute of it. Weve had fun. I think the biggest frustration is the way the media covers me, the way that media covers perhaps this agenda. And Im disappointed by it. Im very surprised by it. Generally I think over my lifetime Ive gotten pretty good press, and here, no matter how big a victory, they really cover it incorrectly, and hence the term fake news etc.
etc. Id say thats been somewhat of a disappointment. I thought that after I won, I was covered, I thought, very poorly during the campaign, I thought after I won, theyd be different. And actually theyve probably gotten worse. So, that would be somewhat of a disappointment to me.
Well, when you do something and they report it incorrectly. And the problem is that I would know and the public wouldnt, although I think the public, a lot of the public, believes in me when I say it. So I would know what happened, and when they cover it, knowing what I know, but they cover it incorrectly, that to me is fake news.
And its unfortunate that it takes place, but it does, and at a level that I wouldnt be believed. And also with frequency. Its pretty amazing, actually.
Well, I think I do. I think, you know, you get in and I say, whats the event of the day, whats going on, whos calling, whats happening, and my life has been a pretty rapid, you know, Ive seen a lot of changes, a lot of rapid changes. I see it certainly in the White House. You come in and everything is going great, and then you find out that theres a tremendous conflict with another nation, you know, big stuff.
Theres something happened with respect to another country, or something happened with respect to a tragedy that takes place. I mean, things happen when youre president, and I take it very seriously. So, yeah. You have to see what happens that morning. You have to see what happens that evening. No question about it.
Well weve had a lot. I mean, you know, when you have a school shooting, is tremendously, it angers me actually, really angers me. It frustrates everybody. You say, how could a thing like this happen, how is it possible, when you see innocent children being killed, teachers? Thats something that you just never can really get over, and you say, is there something we can do? What can we do? What can, you know, because theres so many different sides to it.
Well you can do a lot of the things that weve done. We did a report. The Florida shooting was horrible. And for some reason, that group of people, theyre terrific, I got to be friendly with a lot of them. And we did a report, and they really appreciated the report. We did it with them, and with experts, and Im going to give you a copy of it, because Id like to, I actually have another meeting, I think it was really comprehensive, really good.
And there were a lot of red flags with that shooter. I think they said there were 36 red flags, and youre pretty disappointed, you know what I mean by a red flag? There were warnings out there. This was not a Boy Scout, and people didnt do what they should have done. And now there are other cases where there are no warnings whatsoever, it comes out of the blue.
Maybe in certain ways thats almost more frustrating, because youd say how could a thing like this happen. So those are events that really are, theyre very tough to take when youre the president of a country.
I have.
Its true. And I mean it maybe even more now than I meant it then. But there is a tremendous divide between Republicans and Democrats, between ideologies, you know, whether its health care, I listen to some of the health care plans that would be so destructive, and you see what were doing, and you see what, you know, when you want to take 180 million people off private health insurance where they love it, they just love it. They fought for it. They want it. They work hard for it. And you want to take it away from them.
There is a divide. And thats one of many things. And Im actually surprised by the level... Look, it was here for President Obama. It was here for President Bush. It was certainly here for President Clinton if you go back. But there is a divide, theres no question about it. And I think it can change, I really do. It started on a bad foot when this whole hoax was created with the Russian hoax.
Today you see there, somebody even said it with respect to Mitch McConnell. Mitch McConnell could not care less about Russia. Its when they start, they throw out these phrases, and they think its wonderful, and they say lets play it. I do believe that theres a chance that we can do something. Probably it would be in a second term.
I really think we could probably do something, and a lot better. That would be one of the things that Im a little bit surprised at. I thought thered be better unity. Were accomplishing a lot. Were getting what we want. The military is being rebuilt, the tax cuts we got, the regulation cuts are the biggest of any president in history, even if it was a much longer term of years.
But with all of the things that weve got, I mean think of VA Choice, think of all of the things that weve got, you would think that that would make people happy.
Well if I got fair coverage, I wouldnt even have to tweet. Its my only form of defense. If the press covered me fairly, I wouldnt need that. But they dont cover me fairly. For instance, today I was in Jamestown. I made a speech that was said to be a very good speech. It was not a political speech at all.
It talked about 400 years ago. I mean it an amazing, very important period of time. And there was one protester stood up. And he stood up and he held up a sign, and he said, whatever he said, something. He got more publicity than the speech got. Now I dont need publicity, Steve, at all, but I just thought it was so terrible, and it was on Fox with John Roberts, and he talked about the protester for almost the entire segment of that.
And I said, isnt that a shame. One guy stands up, not an impressive person, he stood up and he got all of this. He took the whole thing away. One person. It wasnt like, gee, we have 25,000 people going crazy. There was one person. And I say, thats pretty sad.
Yes, you do.
Well for one thing Im thinking that never in the history of politics has that happened, and you understand what I mean, because Ive never had an empty seat. I dont believe, from the beginning, from the time I came down the escalator, and I think, you know, because you do cover it really well, one of the reasons Im doing the interview, respect for you and also the fact that you do really do a good job of covering the rallies.
But others cover the rallies too. I dont think weve had an empty seat. I dont think youve seen an empty seat, with thousands of people outside. And sometimes we take ads or we communicate, please dont come. Think of it. Well have a 22,000-seat arena, including like a basketball, an NBA arena, or even bigger stadiums, weve never had an empty seat.
And when you think about that, its never happened before. When you look at, I saw Bidens opening, where he couldnt get 150 people to an opening in a little basketball, high school gymnasium. And its a very unique thing. I will tell you, people are surprised that I look comfortable. But theres such love in those arenas, theres such love in those stadiums and those rooms that I speak in, its really not hard.
Its hard to explain that to people. I have friends that are very successful. They say, how do you get up, and much of it is not even, you know, sometimes Ill have a teleprompter, or Ill have some notes or something, but much of its just off the cuff, because theres tremendous love in those rooms. Theres an amazing, and Im sure that you see that, its an incredible love.
And I have to say that I believe that its stronger now than it was even Election Day in 16. I really believe its stronger now than Ive ever seen it before.
Well, I think the word has really gone down a long way, because everybodys called a racist now. Her own party called Nancy Pelosi a racist two weeks ago. The word is so overused, its such a disgrace. And I can tell you, Im the least racist person there is in the world as far as Im concerned, and they use it almost when they run out of things to criticize you.
They say hes a racist, hes a racist. Now in some cases its true, there are people that are racist, bad people. But with me, they have a hard time getting away with it, and they dont get away with it. And if you look at what Ive done for African-Americans between, I mean look at criminal justice reform.
President Obama tried so hard to get it, he couldnt get it. You look at Opportunity Zones. And then of course, look at, the Opportunity Zones are a tremendous success by the way, not covered. But we did that as, really an experiment. Its most successful. I think its one of the most successful things ever done for the inner cities.
Its turned out to be... Tim Scott of South Carolina worked very hard on it, so many other people did. And its really become a great success. The biggest beneficiary are African-American, the African-American population. Its incredible whats happened, but between that criminal justice reform, and then of course the biggest thing is the lowest unemployment rate in the history of this country for African-Americans, lowest in the history by far, its not even close.
So when you when you see those things, and when people, I mean if the news, the lame stream, or mainstream, or whatever you want to call it media, or fake news, if it would be covered, people would feel a lot different. But they dont talk about that. They dont talk about Opportunity Zones. I dont think Ive ever seen anything about Opportunity Zones.
I dont think Ive seen, you know, when I did criminal justice reform, everybody would say, oh, I wont tell you names because Im not looking to build them up, but the biggest names were there on the other side, liberals, and conservative side, it was very bipartisan. But they dont even talk about it anymore.
If somebody else did it, if President Obama did criminal justice reform, which is so good for the African-Americans, so good, so important, you know, letting Alice out, getting... 28 years left to serve. Jack Johnson, who was so unjustly convicted, the great heavyweight champion from the early nineteen hundreds.
I mean so many things weve done. When, if President Obama did that, it would have been great. But when I do it, when I do it, Steve, when I do it, people dont want to talk about it.
Because the press doesnt put what Ive accomplished for African-Americans out, they really dont. They dont talk about criminal justice reform. I did it. It was hard to do too, I had to get people that, really, I had to really twist arms. It was hard to get some of the people and we got it. Its being hailed in certain, many people hail it, they talk about it, but they dont even mention that I had anything to do with it. It couldnt have happened without me. I was the one that was able to get it done.
So, if the press treated me fairly, I dont want to complain, in the meantime Im president, right, so how bad can it be. But the truth is, if I wasnt able to get out my own message, I would not be elected anything, because the press is very unfair. Now, if the press did treat me fairly, Id have tremendous support from the African-American community.
You know, when Kanye West comes out and supports me, it has a big impact. Jim Brown, I have so much support, Evander Holyfield, Mike Tyson, so many of these, really representatives, athletes, and so many more, so many more. But when Kanye did it, it was very interesting, because my numbers went really, you probably saw it, they really...
Well, the interesting thing is, people heard, they said well wait a minute, we didnt know this about President Trump. But thats the facts. Thats the way it is. And were not like, for instance Im doing an interview with you, people seeing that well, theyre going to say well, I didnt know he did criminal justice reform.
That was a Clinton thing that was horrible. And Biden. It was horrible for African-Americans. Im the one that opened it up and got it unclogged. It was a terrible situation where people were going to jail for 50 years over something that in some cases wouldnt even be thought of for a year, or six months, or in some cases for nothing today.
So it was a very unfair thing. Im proud of it. But you know, I get, people dont talk about it, the media doesnt talk about it.
Not too much. I mean I speak with George Bush. Spoke a little bit to the father. But really not too much. I mean its hard when people were against you. I very much disagreed with the war in Iraq. So its hard to say that all of a sudden I can forget that. I mean Im in a situation where were in the Middle East, where weve defeated, as you know, the caliphate in Syria.
We did, I did that because, I did that, I wanted to do that, and we did it, 100 percent of the caliphate. When I was at 99 percent, people said, oh you cant pull out, you cant pull out. Well, when I took it over it was a mess. Anyway, I defeated 100 percent caliphate. That doesnt mean ISIS doesnt go running around bombing a store and doing what they do, because theyre stone cold crazy, but weve done a great job.
But I disagreed very strongly on having gone into the Middle East. Were in there now for more than $7 trillion, thousands of lives, millions of lives, you have to count both sides, because I actually count both sides, millions of lives. And they went into a country that did not knock down the World Trade Center, OK. They didnt knock it down.
It was not Iraq, and it was not Saddam Hussein. He had plenty of problems, OK, he was not a good person. But he didnt knock down the World Trade Center. So we got stuck in this quicksand, but were extricating ourselves and were getting out. I call them the endless wars. The endless wars have to end. And were doing very well, and our military is being built up at a level that has never been built before.
When I took over, our military was depleted, totally depleted, and now its being, you know, big numbers, but those numbers are more important to me than almost any numbers, because if we dont have protection from bad actors, then were going to be in big trouble.
Sure, but the difference is, he wasnt building up the military. The military was getting depleted. I have to build it up, and I have to build it up from both Bush and from Obama, because with Bush, you know we were in these wars all over the place, and with Obama the same thing, they just never ended. You look at Afghanistan.
Were spending $50 billion a year, $50 billion. Now weve pulled back a lot, I mean, I dont know if you know that, but we have, and were continuing to.
Well were going to see. Were working on negotiating a deal right now, as you probably have heard. And at some point, we want to get out as quickly as we can. But Afghanistan is one thing. And with Syria were just about out, as you know, and we defeated the caliphate, and were just about out. And no, I want to get out of these crazy wars that we should have never been in. We shouldnt have been in these wars.
These wars are wars... We could have done great damage through intelligence and other things, and not having gotten in. Now at the same time, I want to have the strongest military on the planet Earth, and we do, we now do. When I got here, it was really in bad shape. It was, I cant even tell you how bad it was.
And now we have new fighter jets, we have new missiles, we have, our nuclear has been totally renovated, fixed, and in some cases made brand new. We have tremendous submarines that we are building right now, tremendously powerful submarines, nuclear submarines. And a lot of good things are happening. I think were going to end up making a deal with Russia where we have some kind of an arms control, because all were doing is adding on to what we dont need, and they are too.
China is trying to catch us both. Right now it would be us, then Russia, and then China. But Chinas actually way behind, but theyre trying to catch us. And one of the things Ive done is, China had the worst year theyve had in 27 years. I was in the Wall Street Journal yesterday, Steve, and they are not, theyre not doing too well right now.
Were tariffing them, were taking in many, many billions of dollars. Im taking care of our farmers out of those tariffs because China hit them as a way of retaliating against President Trump. And I said, Ill tell you, our farmers are great patriots, theyre incredible, and our farmers are going to be ultimately the biggest beneficiary.
So, a lot of good things are happening with respect to that. You know what, talking to China right now, but really, its going to be up to me. We cannot let China do what theyve done to us over the last 25 years. Theyve taken hundreds of billions of dollars out of our country every single year, hundreds of billions, with a B, not millions, billions.
I think I can reach a deal if I want to. I think theyre right now hurting, the tariffs are killing them, companies are moving out of China, theyre going all over, including theyre coming here, by the way, because they dont want to pay the tariffs. And yeah, I think Im going to reach a deal. Absolutely.
Not much, you know, honestly not much. I sent the one about the wiretapping in quotes, and that turned out to be true. Remember the big deal that was? I heard like about a minute after I sent that, I was called by my people, sir, did you say, I said, yes, I did, whats the big deal? And the reason it was such a big deal is it turned out to be true.
I guess you could say, a lot of the times, the bigger problem is the retweets, which you know, you retweet something that sounds good but it turned out to be from a player thats not the best player in the world, that sort of causes a problem. But overall, I would say no, not at all. I think its a modern-day form of communication, and its not really tweet.
Thats a typewriter. What it really is is, as soon as I do it, you put it on, everybody puts it on, its breaking news. We have, every time I put out a tweet, even if its good morning everybody, they say we have breaking news, the president has just said good morning. Its an incredible way of communicating, and you get it out fast.
Otherwise, I mean, I dont know, how would I combat news thats dishonest? How would I combat a reporter or a network thats totally dishonest? CNN is, you know, 100 percent negative. NBC is negative. I made a lot of money for NBC with the Apprentice. It was a tremendous success at a time when they didnt have any successes, but they forgot about that very quickly.
So, and they wanted to extend me, they went to do anything, I wanted to run for president. And I think weve done a great job. The country is right now on the right path. And I think we have tremendous potential. You know, you take a look at the European Union, thats doing poorly. You take a look at China, its doing really poorly.
You take a look at other countries, theyre not doing well. Were the hottest country in the world. Were doing great economically and otherwise. We now have a very strong military, a lot stronger after this last budget. And then at some point very soon, Ill be able to cut back. But we had to rebuild our military.
We didnt have a choice. You know, its wonderful to say we have a balanced budget. But if we cant protect ourselves, having a balanced budget doesnt mean anything.
Well, I stay up late. I like to read a lot, which is, people dont understand it, but I do read a lot. I also watch a lot. Its sometimes...
I watch a lot of Fox. I tend to not watch too much of CNN because, I mean, its just, its just such incorrect reporting. Thats why their ratings went down so low. Although Ill be watching the debates tonight. You know, if I didnt, youd say I can imagine, you know, I would like to know who Im going to be running against.
Maybe youll tell me after this interview, right?
I dont know. I mean, I would think the four or five top ones would seem to have a big edge. You have some people that shouldnt even be wasting time. But I would think the four or five top ones would be the ones that would be, you know, certainly have the best chance of getting in.
Well, he was always very proud of me. I did, you know, I went to schools, I did well. He just was very proud of me. And I came into his business, he was a man that never let anyone sign a check, and when I came in, I could sign checks, you know, he was just a very strong guy who just was a very dominant figure, and yet a very good man.
He was a very good person, he had tremendous heart, but a strong person. Hed be only surprised in that he never thought Id be running for politics, for office. I think if I said I was going to run for president, I think hed probably say Id have a chance at doing it. So he never got to see this unfortunately, he died a little while before, but he was 93. And he led a good life.
He was a good, good man. Great mother, great father, great brothers and sisters, but, so in that way I was very, very lucky. But I think my father would say that if I wanted to run, I think hed have probably said I would have done very well. Now who knew this was exactly going to happen? Who can say that?
I mean you have political families that everybody thinks are going to do great, and they didnt do so great. But my father would have been very proud. He loved this country. And he had confidence in me.
Well, I think getting costs, now that the military is very close to being totally rebuilt, I think costs are going to be a big factor. We want to strengthen up Social Security so that nobody gets hurt later on. Im going to strengthen a lot of the things up that really, I think were going to do very strong health care, very, very strong health care, its very, very important to me because you dont have, Obamacare is not good.
Weve managed Obamacare really well, and I had a decision to make, do I manage it well, or do I manage it purposely poorly? Politically I should have managed it poorly, but weve managed it really well, much better than they managed it. Its still too expensive, and its still not good health care. So were going to make something really good, and I will leave that for the beginning of my second term.
If we can win the House, the Senate and the presidency, we will have health care thats going to be phenomenal, and many other things. We have a lot of things to do.
Oh absolutely, sure, well be, well be... Well, just in terms of the military, once were, you know, a lot of this money, Steve, is going to rebuilding, is ordering new planes. After you have a certain number of planes, they last for a long time. We have planes that were 45, 50-years old. You know the story, youve reported on it, right, where the grandfather flew the same plane as the young grandson thats now flying, OK. I mean we had old equipment.
We were getting parts from the graveyard in the desert, the plane graveyard, where they had the old, they dont make the parts anymore. They were getting parts, its ridiculous. Now we have brand new F-35s and F-18s, and we have the best missile systems in the world, new Patriots, new Tomahawks, the best submarines, nobodys even close in submarine technology to us. And no, we have phenomenal stuff.
We have aircraft carriers coming on. We have the President Gerald Ford coming on, and its out on sea trials right now. So we have a lot of really great things happening.
