Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Gives a Short Speech After House Health Care Bill Passes|May 4, 2017
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mike.  Thats the group. Thank you. Thank you very much. This really is the group. What a great group of people. and theyre not even doing it for the party, theyre doing it for this country -- because we suffered with Obamacare. I went through two years of campaigning, and Im telling you, no matter where I went, people were suffering so badly with the ravages of Obamacare.
And I will say this, that as far as Im concerned, your premiums, theyre going to start to come down. Were going to get this passed through the Senate. I feel so confident. Your deductibles, when it comes to deductibles, they were so ridiculous that nobody got to use their current plan -- this nonexistent plan that I heard so many wonderful things about over the last three or four days. After that, I mean, its -- I dont think youre going to hear so much. Right now, the insurance companies are fleeing. Its been a catastrophe. And this is a great plan. I actually think it will get even better. And this is, make no mistake, this is a repeal and replace of Obamacare. Make no mistake about it. Make no mistake.
And I think, most importantly, yes, premiums will be coming down. Yes, deductibles will be coming down. But very importantly, its a great plan. And ultimately, thats what its all about. We knew that wasnt going to work. I predicted it a long time ago. I said, its failing. And now, its obvious that its failing. Its dead. Its essentially dead. If we dont pay lots of ransom money over to the insurance companies it would die immediately.
So what we have is something very, very incredibly well-crafted. Tell you what, there is a lot of talent standing behind me. An unbelievable amount of talent, that I can tell you. I mean it.  And coming from a different world and only being a politician for a short period of time -- how am I doing? Am I doing okay? Im President. Hey, Im President. Can you believe it? Right?  I dont know, its -- I thought you needed a little bit more time. They always told me, more time. But we didnt.
But we have an amazing group of people standing behind me. They worked so hard and they worked so long. And when I said, lets do this, lets go out, just short little shots for each one of us and lets say how good this plan is -- we dont have to talk about this unbelievable victory -- wasnt it unbelievable? So we dont have to say it again. But its going to be an unbelievable victory, actually, when we get it through the Senate.
And theres so much spirit there. But I said, lets go out -- we have a little list of some of the people -- and I think after that list goes, if they dont talk too long, our first list, were going to let some of the other folks just come up and say whatever you want. But we want to brag about the plan, because this plan really -- uh oh.  Well, we may.  But were just going to talk a little bit about the plan, how good it is, some of the great features.
I want to thank Paul Ryan.  He has worked so hard. I was joking, I said, you know, Paul, for the last week Ive been hearing "Paul Ryan doesnt have it. Its not working with Paul Ryan. Hes going to get rid of Paul Ryan." And then today I heard, "Paul Ryan is a genius, hes come a long way."  Right?
The groups have all come together. We have the Tuesday Group -- we have so many groups. We have the Freedom Caucus. We have -- and theyre all great people. But we have a lot of groups. But they all came together. Really, Paul, Id say in the last three, four days -- especially in the last day. I see Mark and I see Kevin, I see so many people -- Jim.
We just have developed a bond. This has really brought the Republican Party together, as much as weve come up with a really incredible healthcare plan. This has brought the Republican Party together. Were going to get this finished, and then were going -- as you know we put our tax plan in, its a massive tax cut, the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. I used to say the biggest since Ronald Reagan. Now, its bigger than that. Also, pure tax reform. So were going to get that done next.
And this really helps it. A lot of people said, how come you kept pushing healthcare, knowing how tough it is? Dont forget, Obamacare took 17 months. Hillary Clinton tried so hard -- really valiantly, in all fairness, to get healthcare through. Didnt happen. Weve really been doing this for eight weeks, if you think about it. And this is a real plan. This is a great plan. And we had no support from the other party.
