Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Erie, PA|August 12, 2016
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Unbelievable. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Its a great honor. Thank you.
Amazing. Amazing. What great people.
Were going to bring back our jobs to Pennsylvania. Were going to bring back our jobs to the United States.
Going to bring back our jobs, folks. Ive looked at the numbers and I see whats happening in Pennsylvania. I see whats happening all over our country.
You look at New York state, you look at New England, you look anywhere in the country where you want to go to, all over its the same. Manufacturing way down, jobs way down. You go to other countries, theyre taking our companies, theyre taking our jobs.
People are right now working harder than theyve ever worked. Eighteen years ago they made more money in real wages, 18 years, think of it. Eighteen years ago many of the people in this incredibly big room, and thank you for being here, you know its 93 degrees out.
And they still have a lot of people trying to get in, I dont know if they can get them in. Should we let them in? Just let them in.
But 18 years ago, people were making more money in real wages than they make today. And today theyre working two jobs, some people are working three jobs. So theyre older, and theyre working harder, and theyre making less money, all right? A friend of mine, Ive been telling this story over the last month because its better than going to Wharton or better than going to Harvard and asking them to do a study, because you learn it in three minutes.
But let me just tell you. Right now, Mexico and other countries are building facilities, plants, the likes of which youve never seen. Were going to build the wall, dont worry, were going to build the wall, were going to build it, were going to build it.
But a friend of mine, and actually a supporter, big supporter, great guy. He builds plants, thats what he does, he builds plants. He doesnt want to build apartments, he doesnt want to build office buildings, he wants to build plants. And hes just about the biggest there is. And I said how are things going? He said very well, how are you doing in the U.S.? Not good. How are you doing in Mexico?
He said Donald do you want to see, its the eighth wonder of the world. They are building plants, the likes of which Ive never seen. Hes building some of the greatest plants, big -- you look at Ford moving vast operations to Mexico. The plants. You look at -- look at, take a look. By the way, millions of jobs, thousands of companies over the years, theyve left us. And we have a few things. We have unemployment, we have empty plants, I saw up in New York state, I saw it in Pennsylvania, you were great to meet, you voted a big victory for Donald Trump, thank you.
That was a big victory. I mean I assumed I was going -- if I dont win Pennsylvania -- and by the way, I was talking to our great Congressman, and where is he? Hes here some place, where is he?
He loves the people, and I have to say, of all of Pennsylvania he wants to see this state do well. Thank you. But just talking back to a few of my friends that live here, we have a few of the friends and we see whats happened with General Electric where theyre cutting way back. Not going to happen. And you know why theyre cutting back, its one reason. Because we dont take care of our miners and were not producing coal.
And they dont need to make those big, big beautiful, you could call them locomotives I guess, right? Whatever the hell they are, theyre big and theyre powerful and they dont need them like they used to because we dont make our government work for us. Theyre not working for us. Theyre working for others, theyre not working for us. So when General Electric goes out and you see the numbers, I see the numbers, and its about coal, so I just left parts of Virginia and West Virginia, and the coal industrys decimated.
The miners are out of work, theyre totally out of work. I mean there will be no such thing as coal in this country pretty soon. And were talking clean coal, were talking clean coal.
So I was with the miners, we have such tremendous support, West Virginia, the mining parts of Virginia. All over, Ohio, because Hillary Clinton made the statement not so long ago. A number of months she said, were going to put the mines and miners out of business. All right? Going to put the mines and the miners -- so...
So, were not going to let that happen. Were not going to let that happen and were not going to let it happen in Pennsylvania because you know what? A lot of your miners have already lost their jobs, but you have a lot of other jobs that are very reliant on the mines. Like, as an example, General Electric. And what were going to do, folks, is going to be so special. Were going to bring it back. Were going to bring back our jobs, were going to bring back our companies.
When a company wants to leave our country to go to another country and think theyre going to make their product, and because our politicians are weak, stupid, taken care of by lobbyists, special interests -- theyre taken care of by lobbyists, theyre taken care of by donors and special interests. Thats what -- you know, a friend of mine -- very smart guy -- said -- I cant believe it. Were talking about a deal that took place about a month ago.
He said, I cant believe they could have gotten that through. I said, Why cant you believe it? Well, its so bad for the country. I said, Yeah, but its good for the politician because theyre taken care of by their lobbyists and their donors and the special interests.
So even though you say we want, as an example, General Electric to produce more, if they dont want to or if for some reason one of the donors of crooked Hillary Clinton doesnt want that to happen, even though its great for Erie, even though its great you, even though its great for the state of Pennsylvania, then its not going to happen, folks. Its not going to happen.
And by the way -- and I have to tell you this. So when they think theyre going to take our companies are rip them out of -- as an example -- this area or this state or any other state and go to Mexico and build massive new plants and employ people other than you, and youre going to lose your jobs or youre going to now get two part- time jobs that dont add up to half of what you used to make. That stuff isnt happening anymore. So heres what happens. Theyre going to build that plant. Now, if I were here five years ago and if President Obama put me and maybe secretary of keeping business in the United States -- thats my title, secretary of keeping business in the United States.
I mean, I like the sound of secretary of defense better. Oh, and by the way, were going to build our military. Were going to be very strong.
Really. And were going to take care of our vets. Were going to take care of our vets, believe me.
But I like the sound -- I like the sound of secretary of Defense. I like the sound of secretary of the Treasury. I like the sound of secretary of State. But Ill tell you, would I be good at keeping jobs over here. Would I be...
Ill tell you this. I just have to say the Bernie Sanders protesters were much, much stronger. They had much more passion, I have to say.
All right. You know whats interesting? If I could speak to them for like five minutes -- we want a strong military, we want to take care of our people, we want good education, we want good housing, we want good healthcare. What do we want? Were all in for the same thing.
Really amazing. Really amazing. So Ill be your secretary of keeping companies in the United States, right? So, I would go to a company like Carrier Air Conditioner, which decided to leave Indianapolis, Indiana, and I would say heres the story.
We think its wonderful that youre negotiating with Mexico. Im sure youre going to have a wonderful plant, but heres whats going to happen. If you build that plant and you fire all of these people, 1400 people who were so great to me.
Indiana, I won that in a landslide. Actually, the timing was good. I won it in a landslide because I know what to do. Hillary doesnt know what to do. Did you see her yesterday? She has no clue about what were talking about. Folks, she has no clue. She has no clue. Crooked Hillary. She doesnt know anything about it and, by the way, if she did, she couldnt do it anyway because her donors dont want to do it. Theres reasons.
But look, look. I would go to them and say just to keep them. Just to keep them. And I wouldnt even care that much. Ill tell you why. Ready? Id say heres the story.
If you leave, in this case, Indianapolis, youre going to go to Mexico, youre going to make your air conditioning units. Every single unit that you make that crosses our now very, very strong border were going to charge you 35 percent of the cost of that unit. OK? Thirty five percent. Right?
So simple. Thirty five percent the cost of that unit. We hope you enjoy your new plant. Very hot weather out there, very hot. We hope you enjoy your new plant, but 35 percent is coming to us. Now, heres whats going to happen if they havent moved yet. A lot of them have moved.
Weve lost thousands and thousands of companies, weve lost millions of jobs - too late. I should have been there 10 years ago. Nobody would have left. Nobody would have left because you need the right messenger, you know, Im your messenger in terms of this movement.
But you need the right person saying it. So, heres whats going to happen. Normally theyd call up whoever it is that was putting the little order down like the new president and theyd have one of their lobbyists call up and theyd say Hillary, Im sorry, you cant do that, they gave you $2 million for your campaign. Cant do that, Hillary. OK, I wont do that.
With me, Im putting my money up, folks. Im putting my money up. Putting my money up. Were raising money for Reince and for the RNC, but thats for a lot of other reasons. We are putting - Im putting a lot of money up. I financed my - I funded, not financed, I wish I financed, right? I funded but I funded my primaries and I spent less than anybody else in terms of the measures. So, heres a story - wouldnt that be nice?
I spent less and won in a landslide. Other people spent much, much more. Three, four, five times more and they came in seventh. Who the hell do you want to have as your president, right? Right? Right? Oh, boy, and then they dont like me - couple of them, most of them have really supported us, but some of them just cant get over it. You know what I say to them? Get over it. Were just having fun. Get over it.
You signed a pledge, I hereby guarantee that I will endorse whoever wins - you know, the funny thing, all those pledges, you know they were signed for different - they were signed so that I would sign it. And I would have honored it, I will say. Even if I wasnt fond or didnt like - I would have honored it because a pledge is a very important thing. But heres the thing. So, we are going to take these companies that havent left - now, Im looking at your numbers folks, youre not doing too well.
Youre not doing too well here. Pennsylvania has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since - you know, thats massive, since NAFTA. NAFTA was signed by Bill Clinton and I believe its the single worst trade document ever signed in the history of our country and probably in the history of our world.
Its one of the most one-sided documents that Ive ever seen. And it allowed Mexico and places to do unbelievably well at our expense. And did you see where say, Im going to renegotiate NAFTA, Im going to -- TPP disaster. Ok, dont worry. Dont worry.
And Hillary was in favor of TPP. She said its the gold standard. Thank you for reminding me. I like this guy. Its the gold standard. TPP. Transpacific Partnership. It is going to be -- I dont think you can be worse than NAFTA honestly. But its going to be as bad as NAFTA. So TPP, she said it is the gold standard. Shes reading it from a teleprompter. It is the gold standard -- oh, boy. Our country is in trouble. Our country is in trouble. Our country is in trouble.
So she said its the gold standard. But when she heard me make a speech, as I understand it. And she heard me talking very negatively about it. As an example, they dont talk devaluation, which is the single greatest tool that these countries are using to kill the United States, including China. They devalue their currency. Well, it doesnt happen mention. Number one thing is not mentioned.
So complicated, this agreement. Too many countries. By the way, I believe trade. I believe in trade deals. One country at a time. Boom. Boom. Boom. You got to see the lines. Well have one line. And if they dont do well.
If they dont behave themselves, if they want to start devaluing their currency all over the place, very simple, we write them a notice like we do in business. We serve them with a 30 day notice.
And by the way, you just saw, how great are our police, right?
Law and order. We need law and order. We need law and order and we will have law and order. Our police, our firemen - but our police do a fantastic job. They are not recognized for the great job they do. If they have 500,000 incidents all positively, beautifully handled, one bad thing happens, that one bad thing is on the news for two weeks and its a disgrace. Its a disgrace.
So we should be very thankful for the job they do. So, Pennsylvania is losing a lot of its business. Right now, were sitting here, were talking - oh, heres another one. Go home to Mom. Go home to Mom.
And your mother is voting for trump! Shes voting for Trump. Its true. Its true.
By the way, just to interject - so I was told this whole area is Democratic, meaning Democrat. And I was told that by a lot of different people outside and then they said I cant believe that you have 10,000 people, you have people outside trying to get in.
They said, the came up to me, this is - happens to be a Democrat who I happen to know is a good guy -- came up to me and said Ive never seen anything like it. It always goes Democrat. Is that a correct statement? Said, you are going to win Erie in a and the surrounding area - youre going to win in a landslide. Gonna be a landslide.
Because people are tired of lies, theyre tired of losing their jobs, theyre tired of seeing their companies being ripped out and going to other places. Theyre tired of China coming in and dropping steel all over the place to put your companies out of business, so we have to go to China to get our steel, which is happening very quickly.
And thats why the steel workers are with me, thats why the miners are with me, thats why the working people, electricians, the plumbers, the sheetrockers, the concrete guys and gals, theyre all - theyre with us.
And I grew up, you know they say, you know youre really rich, how come you sort of relate to these people? Well, my father built houses and I used to work in these houses and I got to know the electricians, I got to know all these people, I got to know the plumbers, the steamfitters -- I got to know them all.
And I liked them better than the rich people that I know. I know a lot of rich people. Its true. Theyre better. I like them better.
So, anyway -- and, we are going to put people back to work. Were not playing games. And its going to go quickly. By the way, its going to go quickly.
But look at this, OK. So, Erie, has lost one in three manufacturing jobs. You know that, all I -- you do -- I flew over, youre looking at the plants, plants that 25 years ago, 20 years ago, 15 years ago, some two years ago, were vibrant.
But no plant two years ago was too vibrant because it was down to half, down to a quarter, down to a tenth, and then ultimately they closed, but you see them. They are falling over. The rain, the sleet, the snow, the wind. These are great buildings that are falling apart. Dont feel bad, all over the country. Upstate New York is a disaster, which Hillary Clinton said that she was going to fix.
OK, so the Washington Post is extraordinarily dishonest and thats fine. But they wrote a story, I couldnt believe I saw this story, they talked about Hillary Clinton. It was a headline, Hillary Clinton and when she ran for the United States Senator from New York, she said to the people in upstate New York, which was starting to really have problems because of her husbands bill NAFTA.
And companies were leaving, tremendous unemployment, tremendous problems, making nothing and she said I will turn it around, I will create 200,000 jobs, were going to do a great job. Guess what? She got elected, she did nothing. And the only ones that benefited were the consultants and the people that helped her out. It is a disaster. upstate New York is right now worse than anything you have in the state of Pennsylvania, she did nothing.
And I watched her yesterday, which was hard to do, because she is boring, OK?
I watched her yesterday talking about -- you know whats funny? I said Im going to renegotiate NAFTA and they said what happens if you cant make a deal, I said were going to terminate, were getting out. And...
So Ive been saying that and Ive been saying were going to renegotiate different trade deals, and were going to make great trade deals and all this and shes never said that. All of a sudden, two days ago, I will renegotiate trade deals. Shes not going to do it, folks. Shes going to renegotiate trade deals the same way she was going to put 200,000 jobs in upstate New York.
It turned out to be a total fantasy and I have to tell you, I respect the Washington Post for writing one bad story. Because you what theyre doing? And Reince was alluding to it a little bit, the only way she gets elected is if they dont report on her. They dont show her. They have me on so much television. Theres CNN, you talk about dishonesty, its called the Clinton -- wait -- its called the Clinton News Network, CNN. Now, think of it, Clinton is...
Shes hardly ever on. So yesterday, they have yesterday, a scandal with the emails, another one. Im not talking about the 33,000 emails that she deleted or got rid of. Can you imagine what was on those emails? Can you imagine? I love that. Can you imagine what was on those emails, 33,000 emails were deleted. And she said well it had to do with the wedding and yoga.
I give two to yoga, I give five to the wedding. Ill tell you, the lies, the deception. Were running like they run right now a third world country folks, OK? You saw what happened, its running like a third world country, were being talked about all over the world, nobody can believe it.
In fact, when they were going over the charges against Hillary Clinton, one after another after another after another, however, and yet other people, their lives have been destroyed for doing much less, all right?
Their lives have been destroyed. So now they have a big scandal in New York. Its in the New York papers, but very little. Pay right? Pay for play. And its horrifying, its horrifying. Our government is for sale. Our government is for sale by a crooked person. And what theyre doing is theyre trying to not talk about her. Take a look. You go to CNN as an example. Story after story about Trump. Story -- Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump.
And yesterday, it was announced that people are tired of negative -- the hit jobs and CNNs starting to do very poorly. Thats good. I like that. I like that. And I have to say, Fox has been treating us fairly. Fox has been fair. But CNN has been catastrophic. Its so dishonest.
But somebody was explaining to me their theory. If they dont report on her, people arent going to know how bad she is. Look at her news conference. She hasnt had a news conference in like 260 days. That last one wasnt a news conference. That was a few of her friends. They asked her a question. What did she say about the circuit, right? Let me tell you, if I ever said that, short- circuited, if I ever said I short-circuited, it would be headlines all over the world. They would call for the death penalty.
Can you imagine if I said that I short-circuited? I mean, I stand up here for months in front of massive crowds, she gets 300 people going to her events. She gets 300 people and then she reads something from a teleprompter and then she leaves and she goes home and she goes to sleep.
And then she wakes and she goes again. And Im telling you -- and nobody does anything about it. Now me, I stand up here -- Im not looking at notes. Im not reading teleprompters. Not easy. Not easy. Not easy.
But -- but -- remember -- but -- and if I make one mistake  say, he mention something wrong. He got a wrong date. Its like headlines all over. She can say she short-circuited up here. I dont want a president who short-circuits. Is that OK? I dont want it. I dont want a president who short-circuits.
Weve got to deal with ISIS. Weve got to deal with China. Weve got to deal with lots of people. Theyre not short-circuiting. But I dont want somebody that short-circuits. So let me just tell you -- let me just tell you.
Over the last little while -- you know, every time, its always a big deal. When I said that Obama -- and of course, Im being sarcastic. And they know that because after I said that, I said hes the MVP, hes going to collect his MVP award. OK.
So I said Obama is the founder of ISIS. The founder.
And these dishonest media people -- theyre the most dishonest people. They said oh, did he mean that? Didnt he mean that? And after that, Id say a lot -- in fact, they like him so much because hes been so weak and so bad. I mean, he let this happen. They had eight states. They had eight countries. Theyre now in 28 countries. Theyre expanding.
So I said the founder of -- obviously, Im being sarcastic. Then -- then -- but not that sarcastic, to be honest with you.
And they all said, he should not say that. They should call him an enabler. Call him an enabler. Hes an enabler. I said, that doesnt sound the same. Hes an enabler. People are going to say whats -- these people are the worst. But listen, so I said the founder of ISIS. And in fact, very soon hes going over to pick up his most valuable player award. Did I say that? I say it all the time.
So they knew I was being sarcastic. By now theyre analyzing. Did I really mean that? How could I say that? These people are the lowest form of life. Im telling you. The lowest.
They are the lowest form of humanity. Not all of them. They have about 25 percent that are pretty good, actually. But most of them.
OK. So, heres the story. So Erie has lost a lot. Right? You know that, right? Hang in, dont leave. I promise we can fix it so fast. We will stop these countries from taking our jobs. We will stop these countries from taking our companies. Hold on.
Our jobs will come back. Now, I came up with a great plan. Im lowering corporate taxes so our companies stay, so I dont even have to make the call. The corporate inversions - you know, we have companies that have, they say, two and a half trillion dollars outside of our comp - they cant get their money back. We dont let them.
Everybody agrees that we should do it. Republicans, Democrats, everybody agrees.
Whats the - look, why do we not want them to bring money back? You know why? Because we dont have a president that can sit the leaders of both parties around a table and in about five minutes let them say lets bring this money back in so we can work it in this country, right?
Thats what it is. So were going to bring that money back in, were going to lower taxes, were going to keep our companies - and if our companies want to leave, theyre going to pay a nice big beautiful tax to get their product back in.
OK? Thats whats going to happen. So, the existing U.S. trade deficit with TPP participating nations has already cost Pennsylvania 68,000 jobs, folks. No more, folks.
Were not going to be stupid people any more, were going to be the really, really smart people. Its going to be America first. America first. America first. First.
So, the destruction of manufacturing in Pennsylvania was caused by Hillary Clintons and her husbands disastrous trade policies.
I mean, you take a look at what shes done. At the bidding of her corporate funders, Hillary Clinton has backed every job-killing trade deal for decades. She has received so much money, she has approved virtually every tax increase put before her.
Yesterday - you see 1.3 trillion in tax increases. Were the highest taxed nation in the land, essentially. Were the highest taxed nation in the world. Anywhere in the world.
And of the industrialized nations, were far and away the highest taxed nation. And shes proposing a massive tax increase. Folks, we cant do it. Its going to make our country non-competitive - its already non-competitive.
Its going to make our country non-competitive and were not going to do it. Im proposing a massive tax decrease for the middle class, for business, and businesses are going to pour in - not since Ronald Reagan has anything like this been proposed.
Businesses instead of leaving because their taxes are so high, theyre going to stay. I might not even have to make those calls. Now, if I do, I will, meaning my people will. Ill do some, I love doing it. I would love telling some guy youre not moving. Well, Mr. President, sir, we would like to move to Mexico. Youre not moving and if you do you pay the 35 percent tax. You say Well, in that case, Im not moving, Im not moving. In that case, Im not moving. So easy.
So, your coal industry, your steel industry, which has been ravaged, your General Electrics of the world, which have been ravaged, just ravaged, were going to end it and Ill tell you why. Over the years, Ive watched. For years, for 10 years, for 12 years, for 15 years, beyond Obama, and Ive watched as politicians talked about stopping countries from leaving - companies from leaving our states. You need strength, is right.
Our states. And I watched. Remember they give the low-interest loans? Heres a low-interest loan if you stay in Pennsylvania, heres a zero-interest loan, you dont have to pay, heres a this, heres tax abatement of any kind you want, well help your - it doesnt work, folks, thats not what they need. They have money.
They want to go out, they want to move to another country and because our politicians are so dumb, they want to sell their product to us and not have any retribution, not have any consequences.
So all of thats over and I think you understand it and Hillary cant do it. Number one, she cant do it because the mentality isnt there. She cant do it. No, the mentality.
You know, she said fairly recently, I dont like Donald Trumps tone. His tone isnt nice. And I said, here we have a country thats being taken advantage of by every country in the world. Our businesses are being taken. Our jobs being taken. Everythings being taken.
Here we have a world where ISIS is chopping off the heads of Christians and many others, drowning people in steel cages, burying people in the sand, and we have somebody up there who wants to be our president that says, I dont like Donald Trumps tone.
Folks, we better get smart, folks. Hey, look, lets see what happens. We better get smart. We better get smart.
We better get smart. We better get tough. And if were not smart and were not tough, were not going to have a country left. And one of the things I have to talk to you about before I leave is our borders. Illegal immigrants are pouring into our country. In fact, I brought something for you people. I brought -- I brought -- I had to do this. I didnt want to depress you. OK, look. The Clinton legacy.
Nearly one in three manufacturing jobs in Erie, PA -- Erie, PA, sound familiar -- have been lost since Clinton allowed a certain deal with China to happen. Now, look at this -- look at this chart. This is 2001, not long ago. This is now. Congratulations, folks. I hope youre doing well. OK? I hope youre doing well. I dont want to hurt them. I hope youre doing well.
But you know what? You cant do well. When you have a government that is so stupid, that is so -- that is so incompetent, you cant do it. Heres another one, folks. This is what were talking about. Syrian refugees -- we have no idea who they are, where theyre coming from, no paperwork. You saw what happened in San Bernardino. You saw what happened -- frankly, take a look at all over the world. Take a look at whats happening.
If we dont get smart and we dont get smart fast -- Barack Obama is allowing Syrian refugees to come into our country by the thousands. Now, I have as big a heart as anybody in this room and I want to build safe zones and I want, by the way, the Gulf states to pay for it because theyve got plenty of money and theyre not doing much. OK? Well supervise it. OPM, other peoples money. Well supervise it, right? Well supervise it.
But theyre going to pay for it because were protecting these people. If it werent for the United States, those countries wouldnt even exist. Theyd be gone. The power we have is so enormous, but we have people that dont know what theyre doing. We have an incompetent president. We have people that dont know what theyre doing.
So look at this. Look at this. Syrian refugees admitted to the United States on a monthly basis. Look whats happening. Look whats happening.
Now, in all fairness, we want to help people. Cant take a chance. San Bernardino, they walk in. They start shooting. Paris, the best, the toughest gun laws in the world, Paris, France. They walk in. They kill 130 people. They wound so gravely hundreds of people.
Now, let me just tell you because well -- were on the Second Amendment, right, Second Amendment. If we had in San Bernardino -- if we had in San Bernardino or in Orlando or someplace, somebody in that room like this guy right here, right, or that guy with the blue make America great again hat on or the one with the red make America -- or that woman with the beautiful blonde hair. I wish I had hair that looked like that.
But if we had somebody and they happened to have a gun, San Bernardino, they see him come in -- first of all, if they knew there was a gun where the bullets would be flying in the other direction, they probably wouldnt have got  in, OK? But lets assume they did.
The carnage would not have been what the carnage was. We have to protect our Second Amendment. Hillary Clinton wants to kill our second amendment.
She wants to kill it.
So heres our chart. And I was thinking about doing a -- I bring -- every once in a -- like, one in ten I do it, you know a lot of these. I love the people. We have such a movement going on. Who likes the snake? Do you know the snake? Do you like it? Who likes the snake? Here we are with this. We know bad things are going to happen. We know as we allow more and more people to come in from these terror areas, bad things are going to happen.
Has anybody heard the snake? Not that many? Should I do it again? So think of this, folks, think of this, think of it. This is what is going on in our country with our borders. And by the way, were going to have a strong border, were going to have a wall, its going to be a powerful wall that Mexicos going to pay for the wall.
And we have no choice, and we have no choice. But think of this. This is now a situation where this was written by Al Wilson many years ago and I read it and I said you know that really pertains to whats happening to the United States and it has to do with being fooled, it has to do with a lot of different things but when youre listening to this, think of our border, think of the people that were letting in by the thousands and Hillary Clinton, you saw those numbers right? With the chart, its through the roof.
Hillary Clinton wants to allow 550 percent more coming into our country. How stupid are we? So, are you ready, you ready, you like it, you sure? On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender hearted woman saw a poor, half-frozen snake, his pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh well, she cried, Ill take you in and Ill take care of you.
Take me in, oh tender woman, take me in for heavens sake, take me in oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake. She wrapped him up, all cozy, in a curvature of silk. Then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake shed taken in, had been revived. Take me in oh tender woman, take me in for heavens sake.
Take me in oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom. Youre so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadnt brought you in by now, you certainly would have died. Now she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in oh tender woman, take me in for heavens sake.
Take me in oh tender woman, sighed the vicious snake. I saved you, I saved you, I saved you, cried that woman. And youve bit me, heavens why. You know your bite is poisonous and now Im going to die. Oh shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.
Get ready folks, get ready. Were led by stupid people. Were led by leaders and you know honestly, I didnt need this. This I didnt need. I had a nice life, built a great company -- a great company, some of the great real estate assets of the world. I may never see them. You know if I win, I may never see them again, and I love them -- all over the world.
But you know what? This is so important. And I watched what was happening with the Iran deal, and I watched what was happening with jobs, and I watched what was happening with trade where China makes $500 billion in trade deficits with us.
I look and I saw. Take a look at Mexico. You know, the politicians say, youll never, ever be able to get Mexico to allow you to build a wall. I say trust me. Now, they dont say that anymore. Now they say, they wont put the money up to build a wall. So easy. Mexico -- our trade deficit is massive, massive. They make a fortune off the stupidity of the United Stated.
Mexico will 100 percent -- you hear -- 100 percent pay for the wall, 100 percent.
OK? One hundred percent. But the story of the snake is whats happening to our country. Were letting people in. Many of these people hate us. Many of these people dont have good thoughts. And you see what one person can do -- one sick wacko can do in Orlando. And then you see his father sitting behind Hillary Clinton with a big smile on his face -- with a big, fat smile on his face, right?
And he was wearing a red hat, and I said, I hope thats not one of my hats. It wasnt. I was concerned. I saw that hat. I said, I hope it doesnt say make America great again. Bad guy -- bad guy. Horrendous son -- horrendous son.
So heres the story, folks. We have to win -- we have to win Pennsylvania, so important. So...
Hillary Clinton is run by people that do this very professionally. Theyre very good. They keep her out of the spotlight. She doesnt talk to reporters -- very rarely. She doesnt do press conferences. She doesnt expose whatevers going on up here. She doesnt -- which isnt good. She doesnt expose her mind to questions. And what they want to do is they want to try and fake it through.
We need strength. We need toughness. We need a strong temperament. We need a strong tone. At the same time -- at the same time, let me tell you -- at the same time, we need real, big, beautiful heart because we have to straighten out healthcare. Obamacares going to be repealed and replaced.
Its going to repay -- did you see -- did you see whats happening with Obamacare? Did you see where the numbers are going up 30, 40, and 50 percent? Wait until you see what happens on November 1st. Now, on November 1st, theyre trying to delay it.
But youre going to get increases, the likes of which probably no country, nobody has ever seen. OK? Anybody in the history of healthcare -- in Texas, through going through Blue Cross Blue Shield, they just had almost a 50 percent increase in their premiums.
And the deductibles are so high that unless you get hit by one of those General Electric locomotives and you live for like a long time prior to death, youll never, ever be able to use your healthcare -- the healthcare. Because heres whats happened -- heres whats happened. The deductible is so high, you never get to use it.
So, youre spending money, your raises by 17, 18, 19 percent. But now, its going to go really bad, really bad. Its going to die of its own volition, but we have to kill it first. Its killing our country, its killing our jobs -- its killing our jobs.
So, heres the story, folks -- folks. We have to win Pennsylvania. We have to beat this professional group of people that are running her for her own -- for their own purposes. We have to win Pennsylvania. We win Pennsylvania, were going to win it. You know, were up in Florida. Were doing well in Ohio. And Im hearing were doing well here. Well find out.
Heres the story...
Heres the story. We have to win the state of Pennsylvania. I went to school here. My kids went to school here. Were going to win Pennsylvania.
If we win Pennsylvania, Ill tell you what. We are very much on our way. You know, the Republicans do have a tougher path, just so you -- not my fault. Not my fault. Its a tougher path.
For the presidency, its just a tougher, winding road. But if win Pennsylvania, we win Florida where were doing really well, I think we can win Ohio, itll be over. Itll be over. Itll be over.
So, on November 8th, you have to get out and vote or do some balloting, and I dont care -- look, heres the story. If youre not feeling well, if youre so sick, if you go to your doctor and he goes, Im sorry sir, but youve only got a few weeks left. And its November 1st. And he gives you the ultimate word, not looking good. You havent got long left. I dont care and nobody else in this room cares. You have to on November 8th get out of bed and get out and vote, right? Get out and vote.
Now, in a lot of cases, you can do your early ballots too. All Im telling you though -- look, folks. Im just saying your jobs have been taken. Your military and all of the other things, were going to save your Second Amendment, which is protection, were going to get of Common Core, youre going to bring your education locally.
All things -- Im going to repeal and replace Obamacare. All these things. Were going to take care of our vets. But heres the story, folks. For you people in particular because you have been devastated.
Supreme Court, he said. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Who did that? Who said that? Thank you.
By the way, and I have to just stop for a second. Look, Supreme Court Justice Scalia great. Was supposed to live for a long time. He died. So you have already an empty. This next president could have the most Supreme Court nominations of any president. Could take more justices than -- it could be up to five. Probably going to be three, could be four, could be five. OK?
If Hillary Clinton gets to put hard-leaning left judges on the Supreme Court, number one, your Second Amendment will be gone. Our country will never ever be the same. We will have problems like weve never had before and you wont have -- you will have a whole different deal going, which we dont want, believe me.
So, heres the story. If for no other reason, I am going to put -- and you know, Ive picked through Federalist society -- we picked 11 Supreme Court justices. Were going to add probably four more, all vetted through Federalists, through Heritage, highly -- I actually got very good marks. Were going to pick these people or people very like that.
So, heres the story, heres the story. You ready? We dont win anymore, you people dont win, thats for sure. You just have to look at the statistics for jobs. Were going to start winning again. Were going to win so much that youre going to get sick and tired of winning.
Youre going to say Mr. President -- youre going to send the congressman to see me in Washington. Hes going to say, Mr. President, we have to do something. The people of Pennsylvania, and in particular our friends in Erie, theyre sick and tired of winning. They cant stand winning so much. Mr. President, we just dont want to win that much. We really want to give other nations like it used to be, where its good for them and bad for us, at least a little bit.
And Im going to say -- Im going to say, Mr. Congressman, I dont think you know your people very well, they want to win. And we want to win. And you want to win. And were going to win. Were going to win so much. Were going to win with our military, were going to knock the hell out of ISIS.
Were going to win for our vets. Were going to take of our vets. Were going to win at the border, were going to build a wall, were going to have Mexico pay, believe me 100 percent. Were going to win with education. Were going to win for our Second Amendment. Were going to win on all of the things we discussed. Were going to win again and youre going to be proud of your country again.
Were not going to be the people that are laughed at all over the world for not knowing what were doing, for allowing others to come in and just strip us of what we have. We are going to win. We are going to be America first. We are going to make America great again. And its going to happen quickly.
