Donald Trump|Interview: Maria Bartiromo Interviews Donald Trump on Fox Business|March 22, 2019
Thank you.
Well, I just think its happening. You look at whats going on with respect to China, our deal is coming along very well; well see what happens. But were taken in billions and billions of dollars for the first time ever against China in the form of tariffs. Im very happy with that, but I think the deal will probably happen; I think they need it very badly.
Nobodys ever really seen anything quite like whats happening. When we did the Mexico and Canada deal, USMCA, thats going very well. I think that it should get approved pretty quickly by Congress, because its a great deal. Its a really great deal. NAFTA was to me one of the worst deals Ive ever seen as trade.
I think the WTO is terrible, also, by the way. I think thats a really bad one. But were doing even better with WTO; were winning cases all of the sudden, because we never won cases, now were starting to win cases because they know my attitude. If they dont treat us fairly we get out. And theres a big difference there.
Were doing a good job. We finished up at 3.1 GDP. Everybody -- you know, that hasnt been done in 14 years, maybe more than that, but 14 years. And I think we have tremendous momentum right now. And youre right, the world is slowing, but were not slowing. And frankly, if we didnt have somebody that would raise interest rates and do quantitative tightening, we would have been at over four instead of a 3.1.
I dont know. I mean, look, I hope I didnt influence, frankly, but it doesnt matter; I dont care if I influenced or not. One thing, I was right. But we would have been over four if they didnt do all of the interest rate hikes. And they tightened, I mean, they did $50 billion a month. I said, "What are we doing here?" And so Im not -- 3.1 may be the best in 14 years; Im not happy with it. We should have had much higher.
And hopefully now well wont do the tightening, because with the world going so, you know, off and with a lot of things happening, you dont do tightening at this time. And well see what happens. But we have tremendous potential as a country. Our companies are doing phenomenally well. The earnings are great.
We have the greatest companies in the world. Were not being treated properly by other countries.
-- and Im straightening that out.
Oh, I think so. I think we can, and I think other -- maybe others cant, but I think we can, absolutely.
Yes.
No, not at all. We have -- if you look at technology and the first $50 billion of goods, we want to keep that and -- because we need that. You know, we have whats called the chicken tax -- you know what that is --
-- on the small vans and trucks and different things, and thats a great thing for us, and that has to do with the automobile industry; thats the best segment. People dont know, we get a 25 percent tariff on that segment; thats our best segment by far. And yes, we will absolutely be able to keep it -- not only keep it going, I really think we have tremendous potential.
The world is going -- the world is going in a little bit the wrong direction, not horribly.
I think a lot of people are waiting for the deal with China. I think thats going to have a very bit impact, maybe bigger than people know. As to whether or not it makes it, I think it will. I think were getting very close. That doesnt mean we get there, but I think were getting very close.
Well, no. What poses a national security risk is our balance sheet. We have to have -- we need a strong balance sheet. Otherwise you dont have national security. So people are always saying, "Well, what do cars have to do with national security?" When Germany is sending cars and we virtually dont tax them, and yet they wont accept our cars, namely the European Union -- which frankly, treats us as badly as China.
The numbers are just smaller by a lot -- but you know, we lost, over the course of the last five, six, seven years, $150 billion a year with European Union. They dont take our product. They tax us tremendously. They tariff us tremendously. Almost every country has taken advantage of the United States -- and were straightening it out.
It does, you know what it does?
Ill tell you what the end game is. Theyll build their plants in the United States and they have no tariffs.
No, because a Chevrolet will never sell like a Mercedes sells here. Theyve offered me that. They said, oh, I have an idea; well go -- no. Well, the problem is that the Chevrolet will never be accepted in Europe like the Mercedes is accepted here, so its not a good deal. I wouldnt do that deal.
Theyve offered me that deal.
I would do it for certain products, but I wouldnt do it for cars. Because they have BMW, they have Mercedes, they have a lot of very good cars that come in, and they make them here. I want them to make them here. Instead of making them over there, make them here. If youre going to sell them to the Americans, make them here.
Maybe go pre-NAFTA. NAFTAs one of the worst deals ever made; one of the worst trade deals ever made, probably the worst and I do include WTO. WTO gave us China in its current form. Theyre considered, you know, in WTO, a developing nation. We put an end, you know, weve let them know, were not going to stand for that.
We let the folks over at the World Trade Organization know, were not going to stand for that. But -- so think of it, China, India, these are all considered developing nations. Were not a developing nation. They have a big advantage over us. Why didnt people come out strongly against that in past administrations?
They should have. Thats a tremendous advantage. We are not allowing that to happen.
Weve advised them that we are not going to stand for that.
Well, I hate the concept of regulation on media, but its very unfair. You talk about the word collusion -- the collusion between the Democrats and these people is, its ridiculous. Its hard to believe I won. If you think about it, I had Facebook, Google, Twitter, everybody against me. I have -- the media is almost totally against me. And yet I won.
306 to 223; people cant even believe it. I won. Because Im able to get the word out through my social media, because I have great social media -- but Ill tell you, its much tougher than it should be. I deal with Twitter. Its not right the way they do it. I know exactly what theyre doing.
They take people off my account. They make it very hard for people to join.
I had a time, very recently ago, where I was picking up hundreds of thousands of people in a very short period of time. Now when I pick up -- and I guess I have way over 100 million on the different platforms --
-- added up; way over 100 million -- but it gives me a voice, because its a corrupt media. You know I call it "fake media" but its fake and corrupt.
And the good news is, you understand that -- and Im not talking about you, by the way -- but you know that better than anybody -- 93 percent negative news and I think its worse than that.
I dont like the concept of it. I really would like everybody to be free, but they dont treat us the same way as they treat liberal Democrats and others. Because the Democrats actually are becoming a far left party; I mean, theyre becoming a radical party. You look at what they want to do with the Supreme Court.
You look at what they want to do with the voting age. Where did that come all of the sudden? The voting age at 16 -- theyre becoming radical. They are radicalized.
You look at this Green New Deal. Its the most preposterous thing. Now I dont want to knock it too much right now, because I -- I really hope they keep going forward with it. You know, frankly, because I think its going to be very easy to beat.
So its not a good portion of my time; its a very small portion. But if you realize about three days ago it came out that his main person gave to the FBI the fake news dossier. It was a fake, it was a fraud, it was paid for by Hillary Clinton and the Democrats. They gave it to John McCain, who gave it to the FBI, for very evil purposes.
Thats not good.
And the other thing he voted against repeal and replace. Now hes been campaigning for years for repeal and replace. Im not a fan. After all of this time, think of this repeal and replace, we would have had great healthcare.
No. I dont talk about it. People ask me the question. I didnt bring this up. You just brought it up. You asked the question.
You asked me the question. When I went out yesterday to the scrum -- they asked me the question. When they ask me the question, I answer the question. But you people bring it up. I dont bring it up. Im not a fan. He was horrible, what he did with repeal and replace. It was -- what he did to the Republican Party and to the nation and to sick people that could have had great healthcare, its not good.
So Im not a fan of John McCain, and thats fine.
I do, I do. And I think I am, in a certain way, bringing it together. I can tell you that a big portion of this nation is united like its never been united before. You look at our economy. You look at jobs. You look at African American -- the lowest in the history of our country, unemployment numbers, the best numbers theyve ever had.
Hispanic. You look at Asian. You look at women; the best in 65 years -- best numbers in 65 years. I think I am bringing it together. I think Im bringing it together --
I just said, you brought up a question, Maria. I didnt bring it up. I didnt mention John McCain until you asked me a question about John McCain. Now I could say I have no comment, but thats not me. But you shouldnt have brought it up. Actually I thought you werent supposed to bring it up, but thats OK. You know, fake news every once in a while.
I have a very, a very serious issue. He handed something to the FBI on me. He knew it was a fake. He handed it to the FBI. Thats an issue.
Repeal and replace of Obamacare. He campaigned for years. Thats an issue. But I didnt bring it up, Maria, you did.
Well, its always interesting to me because a deputy that didnt get any votes appoints a man that didnt get any votes -- hes going to write a report on me. I had one of the greatest election victories in history. Would you say thats true?
They came from the valleys, they came from the rivers, they came from the cities, they came from all over. They voted in one of the greatest elections in the history of our country. And now I have a man, that because we have an Attorney General, who nobody can even believe, that he didnt tell me but he recused himself.
So I have a man who is a deputy, who I dont know -- who I didnt know at all, and he appoints a man who had just left my office. I didnt give him the job at the FBI, Comeys his best friend --
Well, wait a minute. Listen. And you know better than anybody, youve been very fair to me in this -- but think of it. I have a deputy, appoints a man to write a report on me, to make a determination on my presidency. People will not stand for it. Now, with all of that being said, for two years weve gone through this nonsense– cause theres no collusion with Russia, you know that better than anybody.
And theres no obstruction. Theyll say, oh, well, wait. There was no collusion; that was a hoax. But he obstructed in fighting against the hoax. OK? Think about that one for a second.
Thats a great question. So when I won, I made my opening speech, everyones shouting, "Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!" I said, "No, no, no, lets forget her. Lets get onto the future." But they have treated me so viciously, and they have treated me so badly and we did nothing wrong -- you look at the others -- and all of these people you hear about, that had nothing to do with Russia, Russia collusion, nothing.
Its all a big hoax. Its a witch hunt, and its a hoax.
So you asked me a question. Its a very interesting question. The way theyve treated me -- and we have found many crimes on the other side -- these are stone cold crimes, what theyve done, between the deletion of 33,000 emails and many, many other things -- Comeys lying, all of the Brennan lying, the lies to Congress -- and these are just absolute lies to Congress.
Clapper lied to Congress. Nobody does anything. If somebody -- they all say Flynn -- I dont… anything about what he said, but the FBI said he didnt lie. Mueller said he did lie. So whats that all about? And then they destroy a man who is a General and a respected man for many years. Theyve treated -- we have been treated very, very unfairly.
All because Jeff Sessions didnt have a clue. OK?  And recused himself.
I think -- look, I have a lot of respect for him. Ive never known him. Hes a very, very smart, respected man. Hopefully hell do whats fair.
All I can ask is whats fair.
Well, you know, they say there are lots of things, but I dont know about these things, okay, just so you understand. Everyone says this one, that -- I dont even know about this. I called -- I said to my lawyers, are we being looked at here -- they dont even know what people are talking about. Theres so much fake news out there, its a disgrace.
If you look over the past two years, how many breaking news stories was there about me that turned out to be nonexistent? So many of them.
This should never happen to another president. What happened to me. They came up with an excuse for losing an election. This should never happen to another president, because most presidents wouldnt be able to take it. I know the politicians, I know the president, I know what were dealing with. Most people wouldnt be able to take it.
Let me tell you something, Maria. What happened to me should never happen to another President of The United States. Because I depend on this right here, mind, not other people.
And what theyve done is a fraud. Its a fake. Its a witch-hunt. It should never happen to another president.
Yes. We could work on a lot. We could work on a lot and I think the easiest thing, frankly, of all -- I could have started it with number one, but I wanted to get the tax cuts, which we got. The easiest thing is infrastructure. They want it, I want it; I spoke to Nancy Pelosi about it the other day. We agree on it. We even like the type, I think, we like the type of infrastructure were talking about.
Maybe in a certain way more Democrat, from my standpoint, than the Republican concept; private/public. I like, frankly, owning our own roads, owning our bridges. I dont like selling them to other countries --
I think its very feasible because I think they want to do it. I mean, Nancy Pelosi told me very strongly they want to do infrastructure. And we have other things we can do, too. I think we should do something on immigration. Immigrations a total disaster in this country.
We have laws that are so bad; people pouring in. Ill tell you what, border security, border patrol, what theyve done is incredible; the job theyre doing -- the job that ICE is doing. What theyre doing, without the protection and the ability to have a wall. Now -- and by the way, were building a lot of wall right now.
You know that. Were building the wall and its going up fast, big, strong, looks good, not the horrible thing that they were building before I got here. Were building the wall now. Were going to have a lot of wall built pretty soon. But if you dont have that, you cant have border security.
So you have people saying a lot of weird things. You know, I hear not only the Green New Deal, but so many others --
Yeah, you have --
You have Beto, so you have Beto. And Beto comes out and he says, "Lets take down the wall." If you ever took down the wall, this country would be overrun. OK? And we put up a lot of wall, like in San Diego -- its so interesting, these California -- so in San Diego, theyre begging me to do the wall.
I end up doing the wall, and then I see the Governor of California criticizes me for the wall. Theyre begging me to do it. So if you dont have it -- and they know this better than -- its all a political deal. Its all politics. But --
-- My attitude is, I wouldnt mind. I mean, Id love to have Biden. Id love to have Bernie, Id love to have Beto. I mean, Beto seems to be the one the press has chosen. The press seems to have chosen Beto.
When I watch Beto, I say we could dream about that. But whatever it is -- no, I think its competence. I think its somebody -- look. When I first ran, I was never a politician -- I ran, I ran on a certain platform. Ive done far more than I said I was going to do. When you look at the tax cuts, when you look at the regulation cuts -- more than any other president, when you look at all -- and its the biggest tax cut -- you look at anywhere --
You look at even a thing like Right to Try, where people can now use – theyre terminally ill, and they can use medicines that weve developed but that arent out, by signing a simple document.
They used to travel to Asia, to Europe, all over the world to try and get a cure. You look at so many things that Ive done for the veterans -- choice, accountability; they never thought youd have accountability. You couldnt fire anybody if they treated our vets badly. Now you have accountability.
Veterans Choice, where if they have to wait two weeks in line or they have to wait two days --
-- they can go out now, Maria, and see a private doctor and we pay for that doctor.
Ive been thinking about doing it for a long time. Its been a very hard decision for every president. No president has done it. Theyve all -- this is very much like Jerusalem; moving the embassy to Jerusalem. I did that. And I fully understand why every -- Clinton and Bush and Obama; everybody campaigned on Jerusalem and the embassy going to Jerusalem.
I even got the embassy built, by the way, very inexpensively.
But they all campaigned on it, they never did it, and I understand why. Because when I got elected, I also campaigned on it; when I got elected, I was inundated with calls from all over the world. The leaders, mostly the leaders saying, "Please, dont do it. Dont do it." I did it. And its been done and its fine.
Golan Heights is the same thing. For years other presidents have campaigned; they said theyd do it. This is sovereignty, this is security, this is about regional security.
No, I dont -- I wouldnt even know about that. I wouldnt even know about that. I have no idea. I hear hes doing OK. I dont know if hes doing great right now. But I hear hes doing OK. But I would imagine the other side; whoevers against him is also in favor of what I just did. Every president has said, "Do that." Im the one that gets it done.
