Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump with County Sheriffs|February 7, 2017
Oh, the sheriffs are great people. Well, thank you very much. Law enforcement was a big subject in the campaign and a subject that was very well received. You have no idea how respected you are, sheriffs and, generally speaking, the leaders of law enforcement. Anybody involved in law enforcement, you have no idea how respected you are -- you dont get the honest facts from the press -- if you dont know how respected you are.
So I just want to say that upfront.
I’m honored to welcome the National Sheriffs Association. Your leadership is here, and I know the great job you do. I’ve known you and followed you for a long period of time. Your efforts and your officers are outstanding. I know so many sheriffs from my area -- some in particular -- and theyre great friends and great people.
I just want to let you know that our job is to help you in law enforcement, and were going to help you do your job. Were going to expand access to abuse-deterring drugs, which a lot of you have been talking about. Theyre out, and theyre very hard to get. Stop the opioid epidemic. Weve got to do it. It’s a new thing. And, honestly, people aren’t talking about it enough. It’s a new thing, and it’s a new problem for you folks. It’s probably a vast majority of your crimes -- or at least a very big portion of your crimes are caused by drugs.
Were going to stop the border. Were going to stop -- were not going to have the drugs pouring from the border like they have been. We will work with you on supporting your longstanding efforts to strengthen the bonds between the communities and the police, which is very important. And it’s sort a new phenomenon to a certain extent, and it’s happening more and more. And some great results out when you can strengthen the bonds.
Were committed to securing our borders to reduce crime, illegal drugs, human trafficking, especially in border counties. We have a lot of the border counties represented.
Were also committed to working with law enforcement to stop terrorist attacks. Youve been reading about that, been seeing about that -- they want to take a lot of our powers away. There are some people with a lot of the wrong intentions, and its -- weve got a lot of bad people out there.
And, Dana, I just want to thank you on behalf of the government, on behalf of our country for leading a strong, strong effort in the courts. We really appreciate it, believe me. Because as you know, we dont have an attorney general. We have somebody whos phenomenal -- Jeff Sessions. He’s going to be there hopefully soon. But I believe it’s about a record for the length of time that they’ve delayed the Cabinet. These are Cabinet members that are phenomenal people. And we haven’t had representation, and now we have excellent representation, fortunately, in Dana. And Jeff will be with you very shortly, hopefully. But were having a hard time getting approvals. And it’s only a delay tactic -- it’s all politics.
One person came up to me, a senator, a Democratic senator who came up to me the other day and said, Jeff Sessions is a fantastic man. He’s fabulous. He’s a friend of mine. He’s a great, great man and a great talent. And were lucky to have him. I said, oh, great, I guess that means youre voting for him? No, I won’t be voting that.  He said, politics doesnt allow me to do that.
I thought it was a disgrace. If the press talks loud and hard enough, I’ll have to tell you who said that to me. You dont want to hear it. You dont want to hear who said that?  I didnt think you’d care. I didnt think you’d care. I’ll probably tell you, actually. Anyway.
So were going to be very tough on crime. So were going to be very tough on the drugs pouring in, and thats a big part of the crime. Were going to be very strong at the border. We have no choice. And were going to be building a wall. Were starting very soon. General Kelly will be working with a lot of you. And he’s fantastic. He was the one who got approved very quickly along with General Mattis. He’s very, very outstanding. And I very much appreciate that youre here today.
And, Sheriff, I really thank you for leading the effort. Your reputation is fantastic, and it’s a great honor to know you. Maybe we can go around -- we’ll let the press stay for a little while, unless you’d rather leave. Would the press rather stay? Just so you understand. This is a new phenomenon. Youre on live television all over the world right now, so dont get nervous when you speak, okay?
But I dont think these things have ever taken place before. But you are on live television, so if you dont want to say anything, you dont have to. But if you do, I think it’s a good thing to say. So maybe we’ll just go around the room.
It’s true.
You were a great support.
Thank you, Carolyn. There’s a new sheriff in town.
I hear this so much.  I hear this so much, Dana. They always use, there’s a new sheriff in town." So anyway."" hear this so much.  I hear this"
They were very nice. I agree. They were very nice.
So youre seeing a big difference?
And thats only two weeks. Okay? It’s a very short period of time. I’m hearing it from a lot of people. People are calling in and theyre -- and people I know that are in the area, theyre saying it’s like day and night. Because were not playing games. Were not playing games. Were stopping the drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth. So thank you very much. I appreciate it.
Thank you very much. It’s so nice. I appreciate that.
Boy, we almost won your state. You know we werent supposed to do very well in your state, and we won -- lost by one point. I say, if I went there one more visit we would have won.  We would have won Minnesota. But it was very close.
Thank you, I know.
I will. Its already being done, believe me. Its a big, big difference. And we will do that, and you do have a big problem, and you have a big problem with the refugees pouring in, dont you?
Well, you know, the vetting is much, much tougher now. And we need this court case. It will be very helpful to keeping the wrong people out of our country. You understand that better than anybody. So I think were going to have some good results.
It may take a little while. And you know, this is a very dangerous period of time because while everybody is talking and dealing, a lot of bad people are thinking about, hey, lets go in right now. But were being very, very tough with the vetting -- tougher than ever before.
That used to be a political position, you know, what General Kelly is doing here right now. Homeland Security, if you remember -- its like a political position. Not anymore. Now its, in my opinion, one of truly most important positions. So hes doing a great job. Thank you very much.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, Sheriff. And I will tell you that the EPA -- youre right. I call it -- its clogged the bloodstream of our country. People cant do anything. People are looking to get approvals for factories for 15 years, and then after the 15th year they get voted down after having spent a fortune. So thats going to end. We have one of our really great people -- as you know, Scott is looking to be approved by the Senate. Were still waiting for that one, too. Its a disgrace whats going on. But as soon as he gets involved, were going to unclog the system.
And, by the way, people are going to get rejected, but theyre going to get rejected quickly. But for the most part, theyre going to be accepted when they want to do. Were going to bring the jobs back. And your state was very, very good to me, as you know. I mean, they were very, very good to me and I appreciate that. And just tell the people were going to get the system unclogged and were going to get it up.
As you know, I approved two pipelines that were stuck in limbo forever. I dont even think it was controversial. You know, I approved them -- I havent even heard -- I havent had one call from anybody saying, oh, that was a terrible thing you did. I havent had one call. You know, usually, if I do something its like bedlam, right? I havent had one call from anybody. And a lot of jobs -- in the Keystone case, we have potentially 32,000 jobs almost immediately. And then, as you know, I did the Dakota pipeline and nobody called up to complain. Because it was unfair. Years of getting approvals, nobody showed up to fight it. This company spends a tremendous -- hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars, and then all of a sudden, people show up to fight it. Its not fair to our companies. And I think everyone is going to be happy in the end, okay?
So I appreciate it very much, Sheriff. Its a great honor to have you here. Thank you. And say hello to your people.
You never met our great Vice President.
And in about 10 minutes, youre going to see the Oval Office, too, which is -- thats the other thing, you know, people have had meetings here. I had the car companies, the biggest companies -- Ford, General Motors, Fiat -- and they were in this room often. And I said, oh, so youve seen the Oval Office? No
Look, these are the biggest people that were going there -- these are the biggest people. So they were never invited to the Oval Office and they were only 10 feet away. You would think they would be invited. But youre going to see the Oval Office, okay?
Well, I appreciate it. And I will say that, in the recent election, law enforcement is with me. I mean, the numbers were staggering -- staggering. It wasnt like, gee, its 51-49. Believe me, it was through the roof. Law enforcement and military also.
I think, generally, people in uniform tend to like me.  Explain that to me. Dana, explain that to me.  So, Sheriff, thank you very much. And do you miss your former governor?
You have a good new governor.
Mike Pence has been fantastic.
Dana, I want to thank you for your service. Amazing the way you just stepped into the breach and have done such a good job. And lets see what happens with the court case.
Yes, well, thank you very much. And, you know, one of the things that you know better than anybody is that we had a very good victory in Boston. So I said to everybody, why don’t we use the Boston case? Why aren’t we using the Boston case? Because the Boston victory was great, but its statutorily --
And a highly respected judge, too. So I appreciate it. Thank you, Dana, very much. Appreciate it.
Go North Carolina.
Well, thank you. And a funny story -- so when General Kelly was just sworn in, now Secretary Kelly, and I said, you want to have dinner tonight and we’ll talk? “Sir, I’m heading to the border.” I said, I like that better.  We don’t need to eat. I said, I like that better. So he’s right on the ball, he’s going to be fantastic. Because everybody has said the same thing.
Thank you. That’s very nice.
Has this ever happened before with the sheriffs?
It never happened?
And yet the murder rate in our country is the highest it’s been in 47 years, right? Did you know that? Forty-seven years. I used to use that -- I’d say that in a speech and everybody was surprised, because the press doesn’t tell it like it is. It wasn’t to their advantage to say that. But the murder rate is the highest it’s been in, I guess, from 45 to 47 years. And you would think that you would be invited here, and you would think that you people would be able to solve -- had you -- if you ran Chicago, you would solve that nightmare, I tell you. I’ll bet everybody in that room, especially Carolyn, right, would raise their hand. Because to allow -- I mean, literally -- hundreds of shootings a month, it’s worse than some of the places that we read about in the Middle East, where you have wars going on. It’s so sad. Chicago has become so sad a situation.
How much of your crime is caused, do you think, by drugs generally?
Eighty percent. So without drugs, you would have a whole different ballgame.
And when did it start, big league? Or has it been going on for many years?
And at a much higher level?
Much higher.
Right, right.
Okay, well, we’ll have it take infinity, okay?
Absolutely, you’re right. I actually can’t believe that we’re having to fight to protect the security -- in a court system to protect the security of our nation. I can’t even believe it. And a lot of people agree with us, believe me. There’s a group of people out there -- and I mean much more than half of our country -- much, much more. You’re not allowed to use the term “silent majority” anymore. You’re not allowed, because they make that into a whole big deal.
But there’s a group of people out there -- massive, massive numbers, far bigger than what you see protesting. And if those people ever protested, you would see a real protest. But they want to see our borders secure and our country secure, and they want to see people that can love our country come in, not people that are looking to destroy our country.
So anyway, thank you, Sheriff.
So you’re saying -- okay, so you’re saying the asset-taking you used to do, and it had an impact, right? And you’re not allowed to do it now?
And that’s for legal reasons? Or just political reasons?
I’d like to look into that, okay? There’s no reason for that. Dana, do you think there’s any reason for that? Are you aware of this?
So what do you do? So in other words, they have a huge stash of drugs. So in the old days, you take it. Now we’re criticized if we take it. So who gets it? What happens to it? Tell them to keep it?
And now what happens?
Who would want that pressure, other than, like, bad people, right? But who would want that pressure? You would think they’d want this stuff taken away.
I think less so. I think Congress is going to get beat up really badly by the voters because theyve let this happen. And I think badly. I think youll be back in shape. So, asset forfeiture, were going to go back on, okay?
I mean, how simple can anything be? You all agree with that, I assume, right?
Do you even understand the other side of it?
Its like some things --
Sort of like the Iran deal. Nobody even understands how a thing like that could have happened. It does nothing.
So do we need any legislation or any executive orders for that, would you say, Dana -- to put that back in business?
Okay. Good. Youre in charge.  I love that answer, because its better than signing executive orders and then these people take it and they make it look so terrible -- oh
Good. Asset forfeiture. Youre encouraged. Okay. Yes, sir.
Okay, go for it. Just go for it. Dana will tell me if I cant or if --  --
Okay, thats great.
I appreciate it too. Thank you, John.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. Youre a great group of people.
Were going to go into the Oval Office. Does anybody have anything to -- not even a question, a statement, as to how we can bring about law enforcement in a very good, civil, lovely way, but we have to stop crime -- right? Would anybody like to make a statement?
Can you believe that?
Who is the state senator? Want to give his name? Well destroy his career.  Okay, thank you.
You know, Bill Belichick, is a great guy, a friend of mine. And he was telling me -- somebody told me that hell oftentimes, wanting to get a player, hell go to the other players on the team -- hell say, what do you think of this guy? You know, they all the different people. And hell listen to them. And hes done very well, right? Hes done very well. And essentially what theyre -- were talking to the people that know -- Im not telling you, youre telling me. That came up this morning. I mean, that was a big statement. And I didn’t realize it was all clogged. The system is all clogged. So were going to unclog the system, and were going to go right now into the Oval Office.
Would you like the press to come in with you, Mr. Vice President? Should we let them come in? Otherwise theyre going turn around, waiting for the next meeting for six hours. They don’t have such an easy job, Ill tell you. They don’t have such an easy job.
Oh, were going to take it through the system. Its very important. Its very important for the country, regardless of me or whoever succeeds at a later date. I mean, we have to have security in our country. We have to have the ability. When you take some place like Syria, when you take all of the different people pouring -- and if you remember, ISIS said, we are going to infiltrate the United States and other countries through the migration. And then were not allowed to be tough on the people coming in? Explain that one.
So well see what happens. We have big court case. Were well-represented. And were going to see what happens.
It could. We will see. Hopefully it doesn’t have to. Its common sense. You know, some things are law, and Im all in favor of that. And some things are common sense. This is common sense.
I have to know, because Im reported on possibly more than anybody in the world -- I don’t think you have anything to say about that. I happen to know how dishonest the media is. I happen to know stories about me that should be good -- or bad -- you know, I don’t mind a bad story if its true. But I don’t like bad stories that -- stories that should be a positive story when they make them totally negative. I understand the total dishonesty of the media better than anybody. And I let people know it. I mean, the media is a very, very dishonest arm, and well see what happens. Not everybody. And I have to say that. I always preface it by saying, not everybody. But theres tremendous dishonest -- pure, outright dishonesty from the media. Let’s go into the Oval Office.
So they said this is the first President theyve ever seen with all the papers on their desk.  cutting the price of the F-35 fighters. We have a lot of papers.
Okay, go ahead, folks.
