Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Addresses Future Farmers of America in Indianapolis|October 27, 2018
Wow. Well, I want to thank you. When I hear the word "future farmer," thats a very, very important term. Youre very smart doing that: "future farmer." I hear some people want to go into a business or an industry. I say, I wouldnt want to do that but I would like to be a future farmer. That I can tell you. That I can tell you.
But as you know, earlier today, there was a horrific shooting targeting and killing Jewish Americans at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The shooter is in custody and federal authorities have been dispatched to support state and local police, and conduct a full and thorough federal investigation.
This wicked act of mass murder is pure evil, hard to believe, and frankly, something that is unimaginable. Our nation and the world are shocked and stunned by the grief. This was an anti-Semitic act. You wouldnt think this would be possible in this day and age, but we just dont seem to learn from the past.
Our minds cannot comprehend the cruel hate and the twisted malice that could cause a person to unleash such terrible violence during a baby naming ceremony. This was a baby naming ceremony at a sacred house of worship on the holy day of Sabbath.
Anti-Semitism and the widespread persecution of Jews represents one off the ugliest and darkest features of human history. The vial, hate-filled poison of anti-Semitism must be condemned and confronted everywhere and anywhere it appears. There must be no tolerance for anti-Semitism in America or for any form of religious or racial hatred or prejudice.
You know that. You know that very well. You know that very well.
Youre outstanding people. You were brought up incredibly by outstanding parents, in most cases. And I just want to thank you for your understanding. Because today, with one unified voice, we condemn the historic evil of anti-Semitism and every other form of evil. And unfortunately, evil comes in many forms.
And we come together as one American people.
I have just spoken -- go ahead, we should -- we should. I have just spoken with the mayor of Pittsburgh, Bill Peduto -- terrific guy -- and with the governor of Pennsylvania, who Ive been dealing with quite a bit lately on the hurricanes and other things, Tom Wolf, two terrific people, to assure the full and complete resources of my administration in the investigation of this attack.
We are praying for the families of the victims, and our hearts go out to the wounded law enforcement officers in Pittsburgh. Very badly wounded and very brave. The results and the facts will be put out very shortly. But these were very brave officers. These are incredible people of law enforcement. And law enforcement does so much for us. So much for us. They really do. They do so much for us. And theyre really unsung heroes.
They dont get the credit they deserve, but Ive always given them the credit. These are incredible patriots, incredible people.
We mourn for the unthinkable loss of life that took place today, and we pledge in their name to fight for a future of justice, safety, tolerance, morality, dignity, and love.
We must all rise above the hate, move past our divisions, and embrace our common destiny as Americans. And it doesnt mean that we cant fight hard and be strong, and say whats on our mind. But we have to always remember those elements; we have to remember the elements of love and dignity and respect, and so any others.
As we hold Pennsylvania and the great people of Pennsylvania close in our hearts and prayers, I am glad to be here today in the wonderful state of Indiana -- we love Indiana -- and to address some people that are going to be so successful: the Future Farmers of America. Especially -- especially after I open up all those countries to you with our great trade deals, because you had the worst trade deals.
You had the most one-sided, uneven, unfair trade deals. And theyre falling one by one. You know that.
We just signed Mexico and Canada and South Korea. And were opening them up, and youre doing well. And youre going to do much better. Youre even doing better. I looked at your numbers from two and three and four years ago; they werent pretty. It was going in the wrong direction. Now youre going in the right direction.
You know it.
But before we get on to the farm business, I was in the plane -- Air Force One. Did anyone ever hear of Air Force One? Beautiful. See? Anything can happen. If I can fly on Air Force One, then you can be a really, really successful farmer, right? Thats what it is.
But you know, as I was flying on Air force One, I said to my people, because of the horrible tragedy -- I mean, I almost shouldnt say this, but people that have done this and do this for a living -- tough living -- people that went in as first responders, police officers, law enforcement, that have seen many crime scenes -- they said this is one of the worst that theyve seen.
Theyve seen many horrible crime scenes. They said this is one of the worst theyve seen.
And were going to have to come out with very, very powerful punishment for these horrible people that do these things. Going to have to come out with the ultimate punishment. You know what the ultimate punishment is. Its time. We cant let this happen. Its time. And if it does happen, they have to pay a very big price.
And it has to go much quicker. Not 10 years of legal wrangling.
And I said on the plane that, number one, Im going to see these young, brilliant, handsome, and beautiful -- you know youre not allowed to say that anymore but Im saying it anyway. Handsome. Im not supposed to say "handsome," but you are handsome. And Im supposed to say -- Im not supposed to say "beautiful," but you are beautiful.
So I guess Im just old fashioned.
But I said on Air Force One that I would like you to call into Indiana -- Indianapolis, anywhere you want -- Indiana, and I wanted to see if you could find a rabbi and a pastor to say grace. And I said, I know we have a tremendous crowd and I think they would all understand it. I think most of them would love it.
And we found a highly respected rabbi, Benjamin Sendrow, whos highly respected. And we found a great pastor. Dont forget, they were given about eight minutes notice. Its like, can you get over here immediately? And we have Pastor Thom OLeary, from the area. Oh, look at that, they know Thom over there.
Look. Wow.
And I thought I would invite them on stage. Lets give them a big round, and then let them each say grace, say a prayer, because today is a time when we could use a great prayer from a pastor and a rabbi.
Please, come up. Please. Please.
Would you your eyes and open your heart and pray with me today.
Father in Heaven, we dont always understand why crazy things happen in our world, but were reminded that this Earth we live on will never be as great as Heaven and never as horrific as Hell, but we get tastes of Heaven and Hell.
Its in this moment, God, that we would ask for your comfort and your love, and your grace, and your peace to be upon the victims and their family and their friends, and this community of faith that we stand up for.
God, I pray for the police officers and their families that were affected. And, God, we pray for protection for our police officers. We honor them today.
God, we pray for protection in America. We pray, God, that your wisdom and favor would be on our President, President Trump.
We celebrate that every heartbeat is a gift. We thank you that youre a God of grace and mercy and love.
Its in Jesuss name I pray. Amen.
Amen!
Rabbi Benjamin.

Our Father in Heaven, our hearts are heavy today with sorrow. On this day, which from the beginning of time you declared to be holy, the sanctity of the day, the prayers, the praise were shattered by the sound of gunshots.
We first pray that you should send complete healing speedily to the injured, and send strength and comfort to the families of those who did not survive.
We pray today for moral clarity. Let us not dismiss this as an act of insanity, but let us see it for what it is: an act of evil.
As it is written in the Psalms --  -- those who love God, hate evil. And this is a nation that loves its God. And this is a nation that hates evil.
May we continue under the leadership of our President who works tirelessly to fight evil at home and around the world. May we join him in that fight, and may we always remember that the presence of a few evil people among us does not define this country.
We are blessed to live in the greatest country on Earth, and for that, we thank you. Amen.
Thank you very much. That was beautiful. Great people. Not a lot of notice. They did a good job, dont you think? Thats not easy. Thats not easy. And I assume a lot of people are watching, and we appreciate the fact that you allow them to watch. We very much do.
One of the questions that I was asked when we said --

Thank you. One of the questions I was asked, "Will I come to this event?" And I said, "Future farmers -- young farmers, Im coming to this event." And then I was asked whether or not I was going to another event later on in Illinois, which was more or less of a rally -- political rally.
And at first, I was thinking Ill cancel. And then I said, You know, we cant let evil change our life and change our schedule. We cant do that. We have to go and do whatever we were going to do. Otherwise, we give them too much credit. We make them too important.
And you go with a heavy heart, but you go. You dont want to change your life. You cant make them important. These are bad people. You cant allow them to dominate what we do. So Ill go. Not that I want to go, but I think I actually, in reverse, have an obligation to go.
I remember when we had the attack in Manhattan. We opened that stock exchange the next day; people were shocked. A great group of people -- the head of the New York Stock Exchange is just a fantastic guy -- Dick. And he opened it up. He got it opened. Everybody was standing proudly with him. And the purpose wasnt financial.
It had nothing to do with financial. It was that we dont let people that are evil change our lives.
So I think when Im finished with this, I should go to Illinois. I will go to Illinois. And well keep our schedule the way its supposed to be, and we should all do that. And I maybe recommend that to others also. Its a personal choice, but I think maybe we should recommend that to a lot of people. In the meantime, its my honor to be with you right now.
Thank you. Thank you.
Okay. Now we get down to the business of farming. Does anybody want to talk about farms and farming? And ethanol that I just approved for you. And for the country, by the way. And this group of people that are so ambitious. I saw that level -- I came over; I figured Id shake just one quick hand and run up to the podium.
And the whole place -- and I saw that level of ambition, and I said theyre going to be very successful people.
Then I said, "This side -- these great musicians, they would never be that way." And they had the same ambition, right? They rushed the podium. A lot of talent. Thats good music, by the way. I heard that backstage. I said, thats good music.
But my administration is fighting for our farmers every single day. We are replacing unfair trade deals. You have very unfair trade deals, folks. If you look at farming over the last 15 years, its a steady decline. Theres no reason for it. Its not going to be a steady incline. Theres no reason for what happened to farmers.
Incredible people.
Were going to be opening new markets for your exports. Were going to be eliminating job-killing regulations, which weve already done in record numbers. No, record numbers. We will be ending oppressive federal intrusion -- and you and your families know exactly what that means. Well be cutting your taxes and, just like I promised, we are ensuring that ethanol will remain a vital part of Americas energy future with my -- just last week, at the absolute urging of your great Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Sonny Perdue.
He knows more about farming -- I dont know where is. Where is Sonny Perdue? He knows more about farming than any human being Ive ever seen in my life. Where is Sonny? Is he here? Is he backstage? What a great gentleman. And he loves farmers, and he loves farming.
You know, when I was going to pick the Secretary of Agriculture, I interviewed about seven or eight people, and one was great politically and one was great some other way, and they all had something that was fine, I guess.
But I kept saying, "What do you know about farming?" "Sir, I know nothing, but I can learn."  And my staff is saying, "Oh, hire him, hes perfect." I said, "But he doesnt know anything." And then another came in and he had some other talent, but farming wasnt one of them. And a third one came in and I said, "Let me ask you…" -- this guy really seemed to be a total novice -- "Have you ever been to a farm?" "No, sir.
But if I get the job, I said the first thing I do is going to visit a farm."  And I think the Future Farmers wouldnt be too happy.
And then this guy Sonny Perdue walks in. You know, he was the Governor of Georgia for eight years, and very popular. He was the Governor of Georgia, and he was a popular governor. In fact, he wouldve been there forever, I guess, but he was term-limited, right? Its always nicer than somebody loses. But he was a popular governor -- a really popular governor, and a great governor.
And he walked into my office, and he was there for an hour. I learned more about farming in that one hour than I have in my whole life. And he was not perfect in certain ways. But when farming -- it came to farming, he was so good; Ive never seen anything like it. Politically speaking, eh.  Farming speaking.
But he loves his farmers, and he has done some great job.
So, Sonny Perdue. Sonny Perdue. Thank you very much. Thank you, Sonny. Thank you. That man knows more about it. Thank you.
My administration is working very hard to help all of our wonderful farmers in Georgia and the Florida Panhandle impacted by the recent hurricane. We do love that Panhandle. Ill tell you what -- that Panhandle got hit hard, and a piece of Georgia got hit. I went there. And I saw farmers who were so incredible.
I was with Melania, First Lady. Shes doing a great job.
And we had cotton farmers, and pecan farmers, and timber farmers, and these are beautiful people that were devastated. And a cotton farmer was standing in line -- there must have been 40 farmers, all of them really badly hurt. Some devastated. Some wiped out. And he said, "Sir, Ive been doing and growing cotton for 25 years." And he was crying.
He said, "This was the best crop Ive ever grown. This was the finest…" He was explaining to me about cotton. I dont know too much about Cotton, other than I want to grow a lot of it in this country. But he was explaining how, "Sir, this was the…" And hes going like this. I mean, he said its the best crop he ever had.
And then in five hours, sir, I had nothing. I was wiped out.
And I said to our man, Sonny Perdue, "Sonny, we help so many people, but we dont help our people. We dont help them like we should. We got to help these people." He was wiped out. He wasnt asking for anything. He wasnt even thinking about it. And he got wiped out. And they had a rough season, as you know, last year, with a much smaller level of storm, but still, a rough season.
And I said, "Sonny, we got to help these people out." And thats what were going to be doing. Because we help people out, and we help countries out that dont even appreciate it. We give billions and billions of dollars all over the world. We protect countries with our military; they dont pay us. We do so much for so many.
And here we have a cotton farmer who works his ass off his whole life. And I send checks for billions of dollars -- dont worry, a lot of it is going to be -- is being cut back. Youll hear about it when you see all these protests from people.
And we give billions of dollars to places, and they dont even vote for us at the United Nations. Its unbelievable. They vote against us on things that are very popular. They vote against us. Its called no respect. But they do vote now that Im President. They have been voting very nicely. Thank you. Unfortunately.
I wish they would keep not voting for us, okay?
But I said, "Sonny, these people in the Panhandle, Florida, and Georgia, and Alabama…" And youre not talking about -- and, by the way, how about North Carolina, South Carolina? They got hit. They got a big water duster. That was a bad one. So you had two opposites. Here you had massive water, North and South Carolina.
Massive water. And then we get it from the other side, with essentially a tornado. That was massively wide. That was the worlds biggest tornado. Ive never seen anything like it. You go down to the shore; we saw houses where the foundations were actually ripped out of the ground. I mean, there was nothing.
But the foundations were gone. They werent even left. It was total devastation.
And I said, "We have to help these farmers. Their crops have been destroyed." Some of them, the pecans -- does anybody grow pecans? Okay? So we had pecan farmers, where -- I learned so much about this that day -- youll have trees and it takes four years before they start, it take eight years before you can -- and 10 years before they really become productive.
You had massive pecan farms where there wasnt one tree standing. Because theyre not supposed to be hit by hurricanes.
Palm trees are hit by hurricanes. With them, its like ho-hum. You ever see, everything is gone except the palm trees.  Because theyve been hit by hurricanes for 2 million years, and they see a hurricane coming, and they just go poom-boom.  You ever see it? Boom-bomp. You cant knock those suckers over.
And you ever see where we come down -- and I see it in Palm Beach, Florida, and Miami, where I have a lot of stuff. I put certain trees -- beautiful; theyre beautiful. Then we get hit by a big storm, or even a small hurricane, and everything is gone. I said, what happened to all that beautiful? Its not acclimated.
It wasnt meant. Looks pretty. But every time you have a storm, you might as well forget it. But every palm tree is standing. Theres nothing you can do to those suckers.
And thats life. Thats sort of, in a way, when you think of it, thats what you do. But I said to Sonny Perdue, I said, "Sonny, you are authorized to work with these farmers to get them back and help them." And you know, were talking about a lot of money, but were talking about peanuts -- peanuts -- compared to what we give to the world, and the peanut industry, right?
Thats right. Jimmy Carter -- the peanut industry. Who, by the way, is a very nice man. Hes in the peanut -- he was a peanut farmer, right?
But I learned a lot about it, and I said, lets help them out. And were going to help them out. So those farmers that I met, were going to be helping you out. Shockingly, were going to be helping you out. And its going to be my honor to do it.
And you know the interesting thing with farmers? Ive had many meetings with farmers in my office. When things have been -- they dont want help. They just want to be able to do their thing. Others are always asking for, "Give us money. We want…" They dont want help. I could tell you stories where I offered things.
They said, "Sir, thats not what we want. Thats not what were about." I said, I cant believe it, its the first time I ever heard that. The first time Ive ever heard it.
So were going to help out those folks that I met, and others in Florida and in Georgia, and in a little section of Alabama that got hit very hard, and in South Carolina and in North Carolina. Were going to help those people out. Were going to really do everything we can to help them out.
So I want to thank two very special people that have been unbelievably helpful to me as President. You know, we cut your taxes. We got rid of regulations. Were building up our military to a level that is higher than its ever been. And everything is being built in the USA, right? Our military. And in these times especially, when you see horrible things happen, we have to have a strong military.
And the stronger it is, the less likely that well have to use it, right? You understand what that means, I think. You folks understand. The stronger we are, the less likely we have to use it.
But two congressman that have been incredible -- they have been leaders, they have been strong. Theyre from, essentially, around the area. They love the farm business. They respect farmers, like I do. I want to introduce Congressman Jim Banks and Congressman Trey Hollingsworth for being here today. I dont know where they are.
There they are. Thank you. Come here for a second. Come. These guys fight for the farmers. I think they like their farmers. Come here. Say a couple of words. Do you like farmers? Huh? Just say a couple of words.
How we doing? Isnt it great to have this President who cares about farmers, about agriculture -- the future of what you all stand right here in Indiana, at your convention? How great is that?
Serving in this Congress, with this President, is the honor of my life. Weve made a big difference for this country by rebuilding the military, growing a strong economy, serving our veterans better than theyve ever been served before. And its all because of this man right here. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
Wow. Where are the Hoosiers in the house? Im so excited to be here, and Im so excited to work alongside the administration every single day to build a brighter, stronger, better future for America. And that is what this President has been about from day one, all the way through to today.
I know that there were some dark times, that we felt like America had once lost its way. But today we can reassuredly tell the American people that the future will be brighter, and this century will be another American century for American producers, American manufacturers, and most importantly, American farmers.
Please get out and vote for them. And Im going to be very nice. Im not even going to mention their opponents. I wont tell you that theyre aligned with Nancy Pelosi. So Im going to be nice. Get out and vote for those two guys that are with you 100 percent.
Id like to extend my very special thanks to FFA President Bre Holbert. Bre. Thank you. Thank you. What a job. What a job. Thank you, Bre. Board Chairman --
I love you, Bre!
Somebody said, "I love you, Bre." Did you hear that? I love you too, Bre!
Board Chairman, Dr. Steve Brown. Steve. Thank you, Steve. Great job, Steve. CEO Mark Peshill. Thank you, Mark. Good job. Thank you. FFA Foundation President Molly Ball. Thanks, Molly. Great job. And all of the outstanding teachers who pour out their heart and soul to make FFA such a tremendous organization.
Look what theyve done today. Look at this. Great job. Great job.
No one embodies the American spirit like the members of the FFA and, frankly, all of the people that are in this room with us today. And our nation, if you know, was founded by farmers. In fact, if you look -- chain of command -- if you look, President, Vice President -- I dont know exactly where the Secretary of Agriculture is, but its right up there at the top, because we really were about farming, and we still are about farming.
And nobody does it even close to better. So its a tremendous honor to be here.
Our independence was won by farmers. Our frontier was
settled by farmers. And, every day, our people are fed, clothed and sustained by American farmers.
Somebody just said, your hair looks different today. I said, well, I was standing under the wing of Air Force One doing a news conference early this morning -- a very unfortunate news conference. And the wind was blowing, and the rain -- and I was soaking wet. And thats what I ended up with today.  And I said, well, at least you know its mine.
I said, maybe I should cancel this arrangement because I have a bad hair day.
No!
And the bad news -- somebody said, actually, it looks better than it usually does.  Thats in a response to a little .
Before I took office, our incredible farmers were being crushed by an onslaught of massive taxes, crippling regulations, burdensome federal mandates, and unfair one-sided, bad trade deals.
But those days are over. Now you have a President who is fighting for you. Were fighting now for the farmer. We dont worry too much about the globalists. We want to take care of the globe too, but we have to take care of ourself before we start worrying about others.
And we will work with the globe; we want to work with the globe. But we have to remember, this is about the United States of America first. We have to take care -- and you know what? They have to take care of their countries first, too. Its not like any other way. And I say it: They take care of themselves, we take care of -- and Ill pit us against any country in the world.
And then, when everything is perfect, we help people. We have to help people -- and thats good. But we have to take care of the good ole USA and our farmers.
In the two years leading up to the election, agriculture products -- and please remember this -- our exports dropped by nearly $23 billion. Think of that. Agriculture exports. This is before I took office, before the election -- dropped by $23 billion. Nobody wants to say that, but I say it. Now theyre up by more than $14 billion, and thats before these great trade deals kick in.
Before the election, American farmers saw their net income plummet by one-third. Now we have increased net farm incomes -- and this is during negotiations of these tough deals -- by $4 billion. Think of that. Nobody wants to say that. The farmers say it, but nobody wants to say that.
And were fighting very hard for a terrific farm bill that includes work requirements for food stamps. We want to do something with work requirements. We want to have work requirements. And dont worry about the farm bill. The farm bill we can sign. I could have signed it three months ago. But were trying to make a good bill.
Is it okay if I take a little longer? Because I have these people. These people. Doesnt matter. Remember, they were saying, "Oh, you have to add Canada; you have to make the deal." Very hard.
Were negotiating with Canada. Were negotiating with Mexico. And I have politicians saying, "You must add this. You must make the deal." And I keep telling them, I dont care if I make a deal or not -- Im telling this to the two countries. I couldnt care less if I make the deal. And then I got politicians, "He must make the deal with Mexico.
He must make the deal with Canada." And Im telling them, I couldnt care less if I make the deal.
These guys absolutely make it tough, but it doesnt matter, because we made a wonderful deal. And hopefully its going to be great for Mexico, and hopefully its going to be great for Canada. But I know one thing: Its great for us. And were not going to lose. Were not going to lose our companies anymore going to other countries, because theres a big disincentive.
You know, when we had NAFTA, we lost millions and millions of jobs. Thousands and thousands of companies moved to Mexico, and Canada, to a lesser extent. But they moved to Mexico -- car companies, other companies. Millions and millions of jobs. Not going to happen anymore, because now you have a big disincentive, whereas before you had this ridiculous incentive to move.
Theyre not moving anymore. Theyre not moving. That was very important to me in these deals.
We recently announced that we are replacing NAFTA with that brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement that will increase exports for corn farmers in Indiana, wheat farmers in Kansas, dairy farmers in Wisconsin, poultry farmers in Georgia, and farmers and producers all across the country. All across. Going to be able to export your product now to places you never even thought about.
As part of this tremendous victory for American farmers, Canada agreed to remove their massive trade barriers to the American dairy industry. You saw that. And we love Canada. I love Canada. I love the people. I love Canada. But they were charging us 275-percent tariff, which basically is saying "dont sell your product to Canada," right?
Two-hundred -- I dont mean like 2 percent. They were charging 275-percent tariff to our dairy farmers. Cant do that. Cant do that.
Canada also agreed to give fair treatment to our wheat farmers, and they will now grade American wheat just like they grade their own wheat. Now, you people know what that means. I dont know what the hell it means, but I heard it was a big concession. I have no idea. I have no idea what that means. But everybody is saying, "Sir, could you get the wheat graded the same way they grade their wheat?" And I said, "All right, whatever the hell it means, we got it, okay?" That was supposed to be a big deal.
Thats why you have to know your business. You have to be in a business. But I have great people. I have great negotiating people. And I work with Sonny and a lot of great farmers, and they know. Thats what we have to do -- you have to know who to use.
We are pursuing fair trade all around the world. We opened Argentina to American pork exports for the first time in 25 years. We opened India and Morocco; they both opened their markets to our poultry exports. I mean, getting India -- thats a big country; 1.5 billion people -- that sounds like a good market, right?
U.S. beef has been shipped to Brazil for the first time ever.
And I opened China to our beef a year ago. I havent checked recently how were doing there because we are in the middle of a pretty nasty dispute that we will win. We will win. No, were going to win it. But China was taking our beef. First time since the year 2000, when they ended it. But I went to President Xi, and he agreed to do it. And it was great.
And it will all work out between China and the United States.
Its -- you know, theyve doing very well against us for 25, 30 years. Theyve been doing beyond well -- taking out $500 billion a year out of the United States. Would you say thats a lot? Thats a lot of corn. Thats a lot of wheat. Thats a lot of soybeans. Cant do that. I said, you cant do that. So were in a trade dispute.
I want to use that word because its a nice, soft word. But were going to win. You know why? Because we always win. We always win. Were American -- we always win. Although, I must say, with your past leaders, you did not always win. You never won. How we got put in this position in the first place is ridiculous.
Japan re-opened its market to U.S. exports of meat from sheep and goat for the first time in over 14 years. Anybody in that business? First time in 14 years. Japan. Dont forget, Japan sends us millions of cars. So now we send them some goat, right? So far, theyre winning. Were sending them a goat. Theyre sending us millions of cars.
But theyre great people, and they have a great leader -- Prime Minister Abe -- and he understands. He understands. Were opening up Japan. We have to. Or we dont take their cars. Its very simple. I mean, its not like, "Oh, gee, this is a tough one." Or we compromise and we put a 20-percent tariff on their cars, which I actually like better.
But we have the cards. We have all the cards.
Dont forget, were the piggybank that everybody wants to steal from. Everybody. We have all the cards, but nobody has ever chosen to use those cards. Honestly, nobody has ever known that we had the cards. They never got it. But we get it now.
And weve taken the first steps toward historic negotiations to permanently open markets for American farmers in Japan and the European Union -- which has barriers up to American farms. The European Union sends us Mercedes Benzs, BMWs, by the millions. They wont take a piece of corn. They wont take wheat.
They dont want our product. But we take their product. Somehow thats not going to last. Do you agree?
The European Union has been very restrictive. They dont take a lot -- not only farm products; medical products. So many products they dont take. And yet, we take theirs. And when they do take our product, they charge us massive tax -- massive. A tariff -- massive. And we take theirs, same product, we charge them almost nothing.
Does that make sense?
China: They make a car, they send a car to the United States, they pay 2.5 percent, but they dont pay because theres ways around it. So they pay nothing. We make a car, we send it to China -- number one, they dont take it because they have a barrier. They dont want our cars. They want them made in China.
Hey, who can blame them -- if they can get away with it? But when they do take them, they charge us 25 percent. So we charge them nothing; they charge us 25 percent. Somehow, that doesnt work too well. And thats whats happened. And there was never anybody to say, no, we cant do that.
China told me they could do whatever they wanted; nobody would ever call them. They would do things that were so onerous to us. They told me this, the top people -- I have a great relationship -- and they expected to be called the next day, "Dont you do that." And nobody would call. So they left it, like the 25-percent tax on cars.
Think of it: We charge them essentially nothing; they charge us 25 percent. That doesnt work out too well for us, and were changing it.
Weve taken the toughest ever action to stand up to the unfair trade practices from China. Weve sent so much money to China that we are largely -- theyve done an incredible job -- but largely responsible for building and rebuilding China. And I dont blame President Xi and I dont blame the leadership in China, and I dont blame China.
I blame our country and our leadership for allowing it to happen. We should have been so smart to do what theyre doing.
Chinese companies have tried to steal our trade secrets and the trade secrets of American agricultural businesses. You know, you have a lot of trade secrets that are incredible. Who would have known? But you have incredible secrets on growing and plants. I mean, you have unbelievable -- I looked at it; I couldnt believe the level of sophistication in the farm business.
This isnt what it was 25 years ago.
But China has taken many of those great, brilliant things that youve come up with, and theyve stolen it. And so have other countries. And China has banned imports of U.S. agricultural products, such as poultry, cutting our farmers and ranchers off from their market. But well get it opened up again. Well get it opened up. Or were just going to be a little tough, because, you know, we put out $250 billion worth of product -- were charging tariffs -- $250 billion; this never happened before.
They said, "Where did this guy come from?" Where did he come from?
After decades of economic abuse, we are finally fighting back as a country. Were not going to take it anymore. To help American products compete and win all around the world, we passed the biggest tax cuts and reforms in American history. And our tax cuts will save family farms and small-business owners from the deeply unfair estate tax, also known as the death tax, so that your farms will stay in your families without you borrowing a fortune from the banks -- mortgaging your farms so that you can pay off the tax.
This guy with the horn, he obviously -- I guess -- I assume youre going to be inheriting a farm. He stood up so fast.  There will be no estate tax on these farms. You know what this is? Thats the difference between saving it. And I tell the parents all the time -- I say, look, if your kids are bad -- hes good -- but if your kids are bad, this doesnt mean anything.
Dont leave your farm to the kids. You dont like them.  Who are the parents in the room? Are there any parents in the room that do not like their children? Huh?  Sell them. Oh, there is one hand up. Can you believe?  I should bring him up and interview him right now. It would be very interesting.
But, you know, its so unfair -- because you have a farm, you work hard. The children work hard for many years. The parents are so proud of the farm. And then all of a sudden -- all of a sudden, something happens, and you get tremendous taxes. Tremendous. And you go to the banks and your borrow money, and then you have a little bit of a downturn and you end up losing the farm.
You dont have to worry about it anymore. Nobody talks about this, but theres no more estate tax on those small farms and businesses, and its a great thing. So you keep the farm in the family. Congratulations, everybody. Youre very rich. You just became very rich.
By the way, a friend of mine is in the audience, one of the greatest businessmen in the world, Mr. Steve Hilbert. Stand up, Steve. From Indianapolis, by the way. From Indiana. A Hoosier. Great. Now one of the great, great businessmen in the world. Thank you, Steve, for being here. I appreciate it.
We have liberated our farmers and ranchers from an avalanche of federal regulation. You know that very well. Weve removed more job-killing regulations than any administration in history. And weve all done that. Weve done that in less than two years. No administration, whether its four years, eight years -- or more, in one case -- has done more.
Has done nearly as much. Has done anywhere close.
Last fiscal year, the U.S. Department of Agriculture eliminated eight burdensome regulations, saving nearly $400 million for farmers. And regulatory reduction efforts by the USDA are projected to save Americans another $1 billion this year alone. And much more into the future.
Since the day I took office, we have removed, delayed, cancelled, or withdrawn more than 2,200 planned federal rules and regulations. These regulations dont just destroy jobs; they limit your freedom, they sap your resources, they interfere in your businesses, and they undermine your way of life.
We are ditching one of the most ridiculous regulations of all, except its got the most beautiful name, the title. I said, "Oh, Im going to sign this, because I know how bad it is. Im going to get killed." And I didnt, because everybody knew how bad. Its got the most beautiful title -- the disastrous Waters of the United States rule.
You know what that is. Well, maybe not that many.
You know what it is? It means you couldnt farm your land. It means you couldnt build houses on your land. It means you couldnt do anything with your land. If you had a little puddle on your land -- you heard this -- it was considered, for purposes of that rule, a lake. And you came under restrictions and regulations that made it impossible to go anywhere near it. Honestly, it was insane.
It was ridiculous. Except for that beautiful title.
Well, I did another one too: the Paris Accord. That drained us. That drained us. That was costing us -- that would have cost us hundreds of billions of dollars, the environmental accord. And we, right now, have the cleanest air and the cleanest water, which is what I want. I want absolutely immaculate air and crystal, clean water.
Thats what we all want. And we now have the cleanest weve ever had.
Government has no business micro-managing your stock tanks, drainage ditches, or the rain puddles in your backyard, putting farmers out of business, taking away your profits, putting you into the red. They have no right to do that.
Were also rebuilding our water infrastructure, upgrading the dams, irrigation systems, and inland waterways that are the lifeblood of American agriculture. And in places in the Midwest, were helping you with your Internet systems where you have such poor access.
Were removing roadblocks to cutting-edge biotechnology, freeing our scientists to innovate, thrive, and to grow. Nobody like you. Theres nobody close to the American farmer in your industry. Nobody close. And we have the greatest equipment in the world. Nobody makes the equipment like our great companies make the equipment, whether its John Deere, or Jacobsen, or Toro, or Case, or so many others.
All great.
I mean, Im not reading this from anything, this is -- I know -- I buy too much of it. I have to buy a lot. And that -- these are great companies. These are phenomenal -- nobody has companies like that. Nobody. And we have to protect them, too. We cant let others take advantage of our companies, because its jobs, its technology.
We have to protect our great companies.
Were lifting harmful restrictions on forestry so you can log more timber, plant more trees, and export more renewable resources to other countries. I mean, think of it: Were importing lumber and timber and trees from other countries, and we have 10 times more than they have. Explain that one. But its all being brought back.
You know, a part of our campaign when we won two years ago on that great, great evening, that great movement -- the greatest movement in American politics, it was based on common sense. Common sense.
To support incredible programs like the FFA, my administration is expanding apprenticeships -- I love that word. "The Apprentice." Apprenticeships, on-the-job-training, and vocational education.
We are providing more than $1 billion annually to keep vocational education and agriculture education in our public schools. How about that? Youre a hard crowd to figure. I thought that would be good, but I didnt see that as a standing -- some of the ones that got a little applause, I thought that was going to be a -- see, I just dont know the farm business, I guess.
But it is true, were going to help you a lot, educationally.
Thanks to our America First -- does everybody like American First? Dont we like it? Its about time. But thanks to our America First agenda, you are coming of age during a new era of American prosperity.
Weve created more than 4.2 million new jobs since the election. And very importantly, weve lifted 4.2 million Americans off of food stamps.
More Americans are working today than at any point in the history of our country. How good is that as a soundbite? When Im debating one of these characters -- Ill be debating a Democrat. You saw that. Although, I dont know, maybe Elizabeth Warren is gone. She may be gone. She may be gone. What a sad thing happened to her.
Turned out that I had more Indian blood in me than she has.  What a sad event. And I have none, so, you know.  We cant resist. Can we resist?
No, but how good is that as a soundbite? Youre on a debate stage and you say, "We are, right now, having more people working in the United States than -- by far -- than ever before." Today. Right now. Just cant . Thats a good soundbite.
The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years. Thats another good soundbite. Heres one that I love -- heres one that I love: the Hispanic -- Hispanic American, African American -- Kanye West, was he great? He did me a big favor. Kanye! People like him. And Asian American unemployment have all reached their lowest rates ever recorded.
Think of that. Unemployment. African American, Hispanic American, Asian American -- lowest ever.
And youve heard me say this, and I cant -- I dont know. Ive let the women down, because womens unemployment -- Ive been waiting for months for this thing to change. It doesnt change. Womens unemployment has only fallen to the lowest level in 65 years, as opposed to history. As opposed to historic.
But women lowest -- best numbers in 65 years. Can you imagine? And Im disappointed by that, because everything else is "historic," "in history." But thats going to be changing very shortly. I think as soon as the next graph comes out, hopefully.
No one is better prepared to live the American Dream than the young Americans here today. You are amazing people. Amazing. You are amazing people.
Your time with the FFA in the field, on the farm, in the lab, and in the classroom has not only prepared you for a stellar great career in something you love; its taught you essential truths about life and about the world in which we live.
You know that success only comes through hard work and perseverance. You know that very well. You know that nothing compares to the satisfaction of an achievement earned and built with your own sweat, your own skill, and with your own two hands. You know that. True. Its true.
And you know that just one -- you know a "just one," right? Right? "Just One." Thats interesting. Thats a pretty popular term and a pretty great group. But you know that just one person taking one step, seizing one opportunity, can change a life, change a community or even change the world forever. You know that.
Just one.
All it took was just one Iowa farm boy to change the course of human history in the last century. You know that. Where is Iowa here? Where is it?
His name was Dr. Norman Borlaug. You know that, right? Dr. Norman Borlaug. Very important life and man. Norman had many setbacks in life but he never, ever gave up. He was known -- he wouldnt give up. His teacher said that Norman will not be defeated by difficulty, and he burns with missionary zeal.
Even after Norman failed his college entrance exams, he failed them. He was devastated. But he kept on pushing forward. Eventually, he earned a PhD, developed a revolutionary variety of high-yield wheat, and he won the Nobel Peace -- well, do you know this? Can you believe it? He won the Nobel Peace Prize.
They probably will never give it to me, even what Im doing in Korea, and in Idlib Province and all of these places. They probably will never give it to me. You know why? Because they dont want to.
But Norman got the Nobel Peace Prize. How about that? And he got the Congressional Gold Medal, and the Presidential Medal of Freedom -- our highest award after, in my opinion, the Congressional Medal of Honor. And Ive given some of them out; these are brave, brave, incredible people. Incredible people.
His innovation saved countless millions of lives around the world from starvation. That is the awesome power of just one courageous American farmer. And that is the legacy each of you inherited today. Thats an incredible legacy. You have no idea how important the farm and farmers are. Thats what its about.
Its so important. You dont -- you know, people tend of take things for granted. Youre truly great and important people. Youre doing a service thats incredible, but importantly, youre also doing something that you love: farming.
I want to recognize three very special FFA members who are carrying on that legacy. The winners of this years American Star Award who are with us today. Stand up when I call your name, or come up here if you want. If you want to shake my hand, Ill shake your hand.
Austin Stanton is from Centralia, Missouri. Come on up here.
They have a lot of ego. You know, I said, "Come up here if you want to. Come up." They jumped out of that seat so fast -- they were up here.  That was like rocket ships.
In high school, Austin bought 600 chickens to diversify the family farm. Austin, I assume you know those people.
I know them.
Oh, you do know them. He knows you. Look at them. They wont sit down for you, Austin. Thats good. No, no, stand up. Look, you deserve it. Austin deserves it.
Now he owns more than 15,000 chickens, and sells eggs to local restaurants, grocery stores, and even his own university. Wow, thats fantastic. Congratulations, Austin. Wow.
Also with us is Ben Curtin from Taylorville, Illinois. Hey, Ben, Im going to Illinois after this. You want to come with me? Ill drop you off.

I will. Ill drop you off if you want.  Well take him in Air Force One, if he wants to go. I dont know -- I dont know if were going to be dropping him anywhere near his -- he may have to travel for two days after he gets dropped off, but --  -- but youre invited to come with us. Thank you, Ben.
Through FFA, Ben gained the mechanical and marketing skills to transform his metalworking hobby into a successful business. A very successful one. Now as a student at Purdue University -- a great college, a great school. What a great school. He makes tractor grapples, mounting plates, and other agricultural equipment.
Ben, great job and congratulations. Fantastic. Thank you, Ben. Great job.
And finally, we have Colin Wegner from Wells, Minnesota. These are popular people. Throughout high school and college, Colins FFA experience involved working on his family farm, bailing hay, planting corn, harvesting soybeans, and operating very heavy machinery.
Today he is the fifth generation to work on his familys farm, and that is really something incredible. And hes doing a great job. Hes doing a great job. And hes doing better than any of the predecessors, right?
Congratulations. Thats really fantastic, fellas. Thats beautiful. Great people. Thank you very much. Very successful.
Americas future depends on young leaders like you who are proud of who you are, proud of where they come from, proud of the American values we all hold dear.
The FFA creed has taught you to believe in self-reliance and honest dealing, to never give up in the face of hardship. And as farmers, you have it both ways. You have hardship and you have great, great, great success.
Most of all, that creed promises that if you will hold true to the best traditions of our national life, if you cherish our freedom, our values, and our country, there is nothing that you cannot achieve. Nothing. Beautiful. Beautiful. Great people in this room.
From the green hillsides of Virginia -- to the fertile valleys of California -- and were trying to get you a lot more water that theyre sending out into the Pacific, by the way. You know what I talking about, right? "Wheres all that water going?" "Sir, we send it out to the Pacific Ocean." I said, "Why dont you let it come down for the farmers?" Were working hard.
Its getting close. You have some great Republican congressmen that are working hard. That will make those farms as good as it gets anywhere in the world.
And from the plains of our heartland to the peaks of the West, the future farmers of America will lift our nation to new heights. Thats what youre going to do.
You will make amazing new discoveries and achieve extraordinary new feats. You will carry on the traditions passed down through generations. And you will do it with the skill and grit and heart and strength and pride that make Americas farmers, by far, the best in the world.
The greatest and most important days for the American farmer are yet to come, and you will take us there. You will take us to new levels. You are the ones shaping our industry. You are the ones who will shape our destiny. You are the ones writing our history. And you are the future farmers of America. Youre the ones who will help, truly -- youve heard my expression, "Make America Great Again." You will make America great again.
