Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Signs Two United States|Japan Trade Agreements
Well, thank you very much everybody. I want to start by wishing my very good friend, Prime Minister Abe of Japan, a very happy birthday. Hes 39 years old today.  So please extend my wishes to the Prime Minister. Hes a great gentleman and we have had tremendous success. As you know, in addition to what were talking about today, theyre building -- Japan -- many car plants in the United States, which they werent doing for a long time.
And theyre building in Michigan, Ohio, lots of different states. And we just appreciate it very much. Been a tremendous investment. But were here to talk about a little bit of a different purchase, and thats good as far as were concerned. And I want to thank you very much. Very much. Thank you.
So were gathered here today at the White House this afternoon to discuss a very strong and groundbreaking achievement for the United States and Japan: the signing of the new U.S.-Japan Trade Agreement and the U.S.-Japan Digital Trade Agreement. Digital is becoming a very big factor in the world.
These two deals represent a tremendous victory for both of our nations. They will create countless jobs, expand investment and commerce, reduce our trade deficit very substantially, promote fairness and reciprocity, and unlock the vast opportunities for growth. In the United States, these deals are a game changer for our farmers and our ranchers -- we love our farmers and we love our ranchers; weve been working very hard on this -- providing them with significantly enhanced access to a critical foreign market.
In a moment, Ill be really honoring a lot of the folks in the room that are here with us from farm country, ranch country. And were going to be witnessing a historic signing by Ambassador Robert Lighthizer and Ambassador from Japan -- a long trip, but you just got here -- Sugiyama of Japan. And were grateful to both of you for the outstanding job youve done and all of the people that were involved with both of you, your staffs and your representatives.
Thank you both very much. Bob, thank you. Thank you very much. Its a lot of work. Were also delighted that Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao is here. Where is Elaine?  Where is Elaine? Hi, Elaine.
Great. Shes busy.  Doing a fantastic job. Thank you --
-- very much, honey. Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Stephen Censky is here. Where is Stephen?
Stephen? Hi, Stephen.
Great job. Thank you very much. Spoke to Sonny last night. Were doing well. A very great gentleman, a very popular man too, in the world and especially his wonderful state, Steve Daines. Steve, I saw you back there. Hi, Steve. Hi, Steve. I also should -- I saw your poll numbers. You are strong.
Youre doing good. And thats a good decision by the voters, I can tell you. Thanks, Steve. Representatives Jodey Arrington and Kevin Hern. And thank you, fellas, for being here. As well as, North Dakota Governor Doug Burgum. Doug, thank you. Thank you.
Thank you. Doug? Wheres Doug? Good, Doug. Good job. Say hello to your wife.
North Carolina Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest. Hi, Dan. Hi. We just approved that last amount of money for the hurricane.
You know about that, right?
Iowa Lieutenant Governor Adam Gregg. Adam, great job.
Great job. And many other state and local officials. We have some tremendously respected people here -- political people. I want to extend a special welcome to all of the leaders here today representing American farmers and ranchers benefitting from this deal -- this is a tremendously important deal and a very big deal -- including those from our beef, pork, poultry, wheat, dairy, and corn associations.
I would particularly like to recognize Zippy. Zippy Duvall. Hes been with us from the beginning. Zippy? Zippy?
Wheres my Zippy? Hi. Very good. Thank you for being here.
Zippy is always -- hes always -- hes always here trying to make good deals for your folks, right?
Hes the President and CEO of the American Farm Bureau Federation. And were doing really well. I -- in fact, were doing a deal with -- a big deal with Japan. But, you know, China is big -- buying again. You see that China is buying very big.
A lot of people dont like to talk about that, but China is in the market buying very big --agricultural. Were also joined by several senior leaders from our nations top technology companies, including Chris Padilla of IBM. Hi, Chris. How are you? Hows IBM doing?
Very good. You have a lot to do with farming, too, I know, right?
With all of those programs that you do. Smart farming. Very smart farming. Peggy Johnson of Microsoft. Peggy, thank you very much for being here. Please say hello, too. And Craig Albright of Business Software Alliance. Thank you very much, Craig. We appreciate it. We do appreciate your support, and it really is now smart farming.
In fact, going to MIT doesnt hurt either, right? When youre a farmer nowadays. Its incredible what they do. From day one, my administration has fought tirelessly to achieve a level playing field for the American worker. In addition to the agreements were signing with Japan today, we reached a tremendous agreement with Mexico and Canada to replace NAFTA with the new USMCA. And hopefully thatll get done in the not-too-distant future.
Everybody wants it. Manufacturers want it, farmers want it, even unions want it. People want it. And thats a great deal for all of the countries, but in particular, its a great deal for us and our workers. Were also completely renegotiating -- and now weve completed that and signed it -- the U.S.-Korea Trade Agreement to substantially expanding American auto exports.
Its made a tremendous difference. That was a terrible agreement, and we renegotiated it and its now a very good agreement for the United States. It was not a good agreement for the United States at all. Todays signing of the U.S.-Japan Trade Agreement and U.S.-Japan Digital Trade Agreement builds on these incredible successes to the benefit of both of our nations.
And I have to say that, while were here, and because of the fact that were talking about agriculture, ethanol, and the farmers of Nebraska and Iowa and all of the different places that wanted it, weve come to an agreement. And its going to be, I guess, about getting close to 16 billion barrels. Right?
Something like that. Thats a lot.
Thats a lot. Say it again.
Thats a lot.  Thats a lot of gallons. So I think they -- so they should like me out in Iowa and all of the different places, huh?
I think so. And also, and very importantly, weve taken in tremendous amounts of money in the form of tariffs from China. China has eaten the cost of those tariffs because theyve devalued their currency and theyve also pumped a lot of money into their system. Deflation is -- we have no inflation. If anything, its going below the number so, therefore, were entitled to an interest rate cut.
I hope the Fed does that because wed be like a rocket ship. And were already the strongest economy in the world and doing better than just about any economy in the world. And a lot of people are asking us the secret. But wed like to see an interest rate cut -- a very substantial one. And whatever else they want to do. But we would be a rocket ship.
And if you look at from the time I got elected -- if you go to November 9th, the day after the election -- were up close to 60 percent in the market, which is numbers that are pretty much unheard of because its a fairly short period of time. Our country is doing really well. But we are taking care of our farmers out of the billions and billions of dollars that weve gotten.
You know about that Zippy, right?
So were giving $12 billion from the year before -- $12 billion. And thats compliments of China. Thank you very much. And $16 billion this last year. And then well see what happens next year. Maybe by that time its straightened out. But the farmers and ranchers were targeted, to put it mildly, by China.
And its nice that theyre coming back. And, by the way, China is also coming here on -- their representatives -- theyre coming on Thursday and Friday, Bob, I believe. And so youll start some negotiations. And the relationship is very good. As to whether or not we make a deal, I dont know. But theres certainly a good possibility.
But the relationship is a very good one. But weve taken in billions of dollars. And of those many, many more billions, were giving $16 billion to our farmers because I asked Sonny Perdue -- I said, "Sonny, what was the amount of money that -- last year, that the farmers were hurt?" He said, "Let me get back to you." He got back to me. The number was $16 billion.
I said, "Thats okay. Were going to take $16 billion out of the tariffs and were going to give it to the American farmer." And I think they appreciated that. It never gets reported by the "fake news," as I say. But it never gets reported. Never. I dont know why. They dont want to do it. And then, Zippy, as you know, we took $12 billion from the year before.
And that also came from large amounts of tariff and -- tariffs. And people were actually saying -- I read a report today, I believe in the Washington Times, where they talked about the tremendous amount of money that has actually come in from tariffs. And its been a number that weve never even seen before in this country.
Weve had a tremendous amount of money coming in. And some of the Republican senators -- and its not a bad idea -- said, "Why dont we give it?" Because we have a lot of money left over after taking care of our farmers. And what were doing is were bringing it right up to the level that the farmers were targeted by. So, in theory, they should be -- it should be, in its own way, a level playing field.
The amazing thing about the farmer -- and Ive been with so many -- they dont even want that, right?
They just want a level playing field. They dont even want $16 billion. I think almost anybody else -- Larry Kudlow -- wants $16 billion. The farmer doesnt want it. They want a level playing field. They want to play the game the way it should be played. And I think were probably pretty close to doing that too.
But in the meantime, no other President would get $16 billion and $12 billion for the American farmer or rancher -- that I can tell you. So --
-- maybe it was your great work. I dont know. Right?
It was all of us. Everybody standing up here, frankly. Under the terms of the agreement, today Japan has committed to dramatically increase market access to American food and agricultural exports. Its a very dramatic number. Its one of the larger trade deals ever signed. As a result, 126 million Japanese consumers will have greater access to high-quality American almonds, blueberries, corn, wine, poultry, and egg products, beef, pork, wheat, and so much more.
Anything else you folks can think of? Do you want to shout it out? Anything? Steve? Anybody? No?
Beef. Did I not say that?
Ethanol.  Yes.  Thats an interes- -- let me think about that one. Once this agreement enters into force, Japanese tariffs will be completely eliminated, so that Japan will not be charging us, as they have, for many, many years -- and thats -- we appreciate it -- and substantially reduced over 90 percent of the United States agricultural exports.
Thats a big thing because were getting charged a lot of tariffs. And its okay for us to charge, but we cant have other countries charge. Our farmers, ranchers, and growers will now be able to compete fairly in Japan against major competitors worldwide. In addition to these agricultural agreements, the extraordinary digital agreement that were signing -- so, that digital agreement is a very big deal in its own right -- were signing today, sets standards on the $40 billion in digital trade between the United States and Japan.
And we just won a big -- talking about digital and talking about the Internet -- but we just won the big case, as you know. And you people would really know, right? But that was a big case that we won on net neutrality. Just won it. And thats a -- going to receive -- maybe they wont even appeal it, because its a very hard case to appeal, but it was a tremendous victory in terms of speed and in terms of investment on the Internet.
This deal is remarkable in that it will ensure that Americans have a level playing field in trading cutting-edge products and services, such as videos, music, e-books, and software. These comprehensive provisions meet the gold standard of digital trade rules that were set in the landmark USMCA. And, again, we hope thats going to get voted on. We hope that Nancy Pelosi gets it voted on because everyone wants it, and shell have to make her own decision.
Let her make her own decision. But I can tell you the American public is tired of Do-Nothing. And we are doing a lot, and the Democrats are doing nothing. Thriving commerce between the United States and Japan is essential to advancing opportunity and prosperity for our people. The United States and Japan are the worlds largest and third-largest economies.
Together, our nations comprise nearly one-third of the entire globes GDP. Japan is Americas third-largest agricultural export market, and this makes it even bigger. And America is Japans foreign investor, and thats what I was talking about -- all of the plants that are going up all over the country. I said to Prime Minister Abe: "Please, we need auto plants." And I said that right at the beginning when I first met with him, and immediately liked him a lot.
And theyve really produced. Theyre doing a lot of plants, not just auto. Many, many -- many, many plants and factories are being built in the United States by Japan and Japanese companies. These agreements will ensure that our economic partnership flourishes brighter than ever before. I think were probably at a stage with Japan where I dont think our relationship has ever been stronger or better than it is right now.
In the months ahead, our teams will continue negotiations on remaining areas of interest to achieve a final and very comprehensive agreement. Were working on that right now. Theres some big, big things that were working on. And Id like now to invite Ambassador Robert Lighthizer to provide further details on these historic deals.
And I want to thank you very much. I want to thank everybody in the room for being here. And thank you very much to the media for being here too. Thank you. Please, Robert.
Go ahead.  I do want to pay compliments, though. Look at these five gentlemen right there. Right there. Thats central casting. They are very tough negotiators.  Tough negotiators. Good. Congratulations.  Well, thats a big one. Thats a very big one.
And Id like to just introduce, if I might, some of the folks here. As you know, Ambassador Gerrish and Doud have been introduced. And great job, fellas. But Bruce Kettler, Director of the Indiana State Department of Agriculture. Eddie Settle, Commissioner -- Chairman of the Wilkes County , North Carolina.
And thats a lot of territory. Thats great stuff. Where are you? Good. Congratulations. Tony Kurtz, State Representative, Vice Chair of the Wisconsin Assembly Committee on Agriculture. Good job. Good job, Tony. Go back and say you did it. Youre going to be -- you can run for anything, right? Barbara Glann, National Association of State Department of Agriculture.
Barbara, congratulations. Ben Scholz, National Association of Wheat Growers. Its a big -- thats a big deal, Ben.
Theyre ready. Theyre ready to buy it, Ill tell you. Theyre going to buy a lot of wheat. Jennifer Houston, National Cattlemens Beef Association.
Good. I thought that was you. I could tell with the hat.  Kevin Ross, National Corn Growers Association. Congratulations.
Fantastic job. Randy Mooney, National Milk Producers Federation.
Great job. Good, Randy. David Herring, National Pork Producers Council. And, David, you are a very big beneficiary to things that are going on, but the pork is off the charts -- the numbers. Arent they? Its going good.
Yeah.
And China is a big buyer right now, right?
Yep. I know. China -- theyre going to be a very big buyer. Its already happened. Kody Carson -- thank you very much.
Kody Carson, National Sorghum Producers. Where is Kody? Great. Good job. Good job. Are you happy about this one?
You said the right thing. I got to be careful.
Oh, I know that. Its great.
This is going to be phenomenal. This -- Julie Anna Potts, North American Meat institute. Thank you. Thank you, Julie, very much.
Thank you very much. Yeah, its great. Thank you very much. Hobey Bauhan, Virginia Poultry Federation. Hobey, thank you very much.
Tom Nassif, Western Growers Association.
Good. Thank you, Tom.
You better believe it. Thank you. Congratulations. Say hello to everybody. Tom Stenzel, United Fresh Produce Association.
Tom, thank you very much. Saw you back there. Vince Peterson, U.S. Wheat Associates. Vince?
Thank you very -- congratulations. Its going to be a lot of wheat.
A lot of wheat going to Japan. And Fred Wacker, Montana Stockgrowers Association.
Fantastic. Thank you very much.
Fantastic job youve all done. And again, my friend.
Great job, Steve. Okay, so weve had a tremendous success. Likewise, were having a lot of successes. We have tremendous success at the border. I want to thank Mexico for what theyve been doing. You look at the numbers; theyre tumbling down. This is one on catch and release. Look at that. See that, fellas?
Catch and -- would you say thats pretty good? Id say its pretty good. Id say its pretty amazing, Steve, even for your -- from your standpoint, Steve, fellas. Thats some number, huh? Getting down to almost zero. Look. So it was not doing so good for a long time. Catch and release. We had no help from the Do-Nothing Democrats, so we did it with Mexico.
We did it with Guatemala. We did it with -- I mean, we did it with some countries that really stopped -- El Salvador; Honduras; and others -- other countries -- countries that are signing safe third agreements, which nobody thought would be even possible. And the border is really doing well. And again, Mexico, today has 27,000 soldiers.
Twenty-seven thousand. I want to thank the President of Mexico, because hes been great. But the border is really looking good. The wall is moving rapidly. Large sections are being built every day. More contracts are being given out. Were -- were doing it in about 17 different sections, because its over 450 miles long --the area we have to close up. And it could even hit 500 at some point.
And we expect to have anywhere between 4- and 500 built, hopefully by the end of next year. Its going up very rapidly. Its a very -- its a very powerful wall. Its got everything you can have. It was -- and the Border Patrol just left, actually. We were going over some of the numbers. And we gave them every single element of the wall that they wanted.
We had mountain climbers come in to climb -- do you believe this? We had different samples put up and we had mountain climbers, literally, come in. "Which is the hardest one to climb?" The panel -- the steel panel on top makes it very difficult. Its called an anti-climb panel. I never thought I would be doing this for a living: anti- --  -- we built an anti-climb panel.
Without the panel, they get across it easy. With the panel, its not so -- its not easy. So, anti-climb panel at the top. And the border is coming along well. The economy is doing great. Were doing -- as I said before, were the hottest economy in the world. Were the largest economy in the world.
Were up $15 trillion, at least, since the election. Fifteen trillion. And China is down, probably, 22 or 24 trillion. So I think China might have caught us if my opponent had gotten in. By now, they would have caught us. And now its going to be a long time before they catch us, if they ever catch us. I dont think anybody is going to catch us. If were smart, nobody will catch us. So with that being said, if you have any questions on the trade deal, please.
Anything on the trade deal, specifically? Yeah, please.
Well, they want to make a deal. Theyre down three and a half million jobs since we started doing what we do. And their supply chain is really cracked and broken. And they want to make a deal. Now, theyre coming to see us on Thursday and Friday. We think there is a chance that we could do something very substantial.
Bob, I think you think that. Well see what happens. But, in the meantime, were taking in billions and billions of dollars of tariffs every month and weve never had this. We never took in 10 cents from China and were taking in billions of dollars and tens of billions a year. And on October 15th, as you know, it goes up from -- up to 35 -- I guess, it goes to 35. Its going to -- its going to raise fairly substantially.
We could always do it a lot more, but weve decided not to. So thats the story. And I think that they will -- theyre coming to make a deal. Well see whether or not a deal can be made, but its got to be a fair deal. Look, weve lost $500 billion a year for many, many years on average. If you include intellectual property theft and all of the other things that took place, its incredible that past administrations could have allowed it to happen.
Were talking about $500 billion -- not million; thats a lot, too -- $500 billion a year, for many years, taken out of our country. We rebuilt China. They did a great job and I dont blame them. I told President Xi, "I dont blame you one bit." I blame the people that ran this country to allow that to happen.
And they understand that. But we dont let that happen anymore. So, well see what happens. Were going to have a very important meeting. And they have their top people coming in. And I have my top people doing the job. And if I dont think theyre doing a good job, Ill fire them and Ill go over and take their place.
Okay? Yeah, please.
Well, wed like to see a very humane solution to that. I hope thats going to happen. And, you know, Hong Kong is very important as a world hub -- not just for China, but for the world. And you have great people over there. I see theyre flying the American flags. They even have signs: "Make China Great Again." "Make Hong Kong Great Again."  And Im saying, "Get those signs." But they have, you know, tremendous signage and tremendous -- they have a tremendous spirit for our country.
They have a lot of American flags, a lot of Trump signs. Id just like to see a humane deal be worked out. And I think President Xi has the ability to do it. I sort of said that I think if he met -- hes a very convincing man, and I think if he met with some of the leaders -- that could be one problem, you dont seem to have a specific leader of the group.
But I really think they can do something. We just want to see a humane solution.
No, I didnt. But I do say that we are negotiating. If anything happened bad, I think that would be a very bad for the negotiation. I think, politically, it would be very tough maybe for us, and maybe for some others, and maybe for him. But, no, I think that they have to do that in a peaceful manner. Its -- now, I will say, the first time I saw it, if you look -- a number of months ago, I saw 2 million people.
Ive never seen anything like it. We talk about crowd size. That was serious crowd size, right? The crowd size is much smaller now, so maybe thats saying something. But hopefully they can work out something thats amicable. Yes, sir.
Well, its a very good question. I think its not what we prefer at all. They are starting to buy a lot of our agricultural products. You see that. Theyre coming in very strong on pork, also -- very, very strong -- and in particular. But on other products, that -- so, I dont know if you call that a "partial." We dont have an agreement.
My inclination is to get a big deal. Weve come this far. Were doing well. Again, the fact that theyve done what theyve done with their currency -- the devaluation -- it really has not increased prices. And now were talking China. It doesnt mean that in all cases that happens; other countries prices increase, but in the case of China that hasnt happened.
And they put a lot of money into their goods. They want to keep their people working. I understand that very well. But I think that well just have to see what happens. I would much prefer a big deal. And I think thats what were shooting for. Can something happen? I guess, maybe. Who knows? But I think its probably unlikely.
Okay?
Yeah.
Well, Im not siding with anybody. Weve been in Syria for many years. You know, Syria was supposed to be a short-term hit -- just a very short-term hit. And we were supposed to be in and out. That was many, many years ago. And we only have 50 people in that area. Thats a small sector. And I dont want those 50 people hurt or killed or anything.
I dont want anything bad to happen to our people. And I told that to President Erdoğan. I said, "Dont hurt any of our -- any of our people get hurt, big trouble." Now, a couple of things: I think theres a lot of pressure on Turkey. They have been fighting with the PKK for many years. Theyre natural enemies.
If you read today, a couple of reports saying that when President Obama started this whole thing -- as you know, it was started by President Obama -- he created a natural war with Turkey and their long-time enemy, PKK. And theyre still there. And theyre still hating each other beyond anybodys belief. But I have told Turkey that if they do anything outside of what we would think is humane -- to use the word a second time; we talk about Hong Kong, we talk about this -- they could suffer the wrath of an extremely decimated economy.
And Ive done it once. I did it with Pastor Brunson. You remember the Pastor Brunson? And they wouldnt give Pastor Brunson back, and they ended up giving Pastor Brunson back pretty quickly. Their currency fell at record levels and lots of other things happened. And it was good. I have a very good relationship with President Erdoğan. I want to see it happen.
I will tell you this though: We defeated ISIS. And when I wanted to -- when we were at 96 and 95 and 97 percent, I sort of said, "Let the other countries in the area finish it off." And I was met with a lot of anger from some people in our country. I said, "All right. Ill finish it off." And I got together with our generals.
I flew to Iraq. I got together. And we did it very quickly. Far quicker than any general from here told us we could do it. We have some great people over there. They did it quickly. And I said to the European countries, "Youve got to take your ISIS…" You know we have 60,000, maybe even 70,000 people -- that includes families, that includes wives of fighters that were killed.
We have many fighters that were killed in the battles. And we took it. Over 100 percent of the caliphate, I took over quickly. Nobody else was -- it was a mess when I came to office. And I think most of you would agree to that. It was a real mess. I took it over. But then I said, "What are we going to do with these 60- to 70,000 people that are being held and being guarded and we cant release them?" And many fighters also.
And I said, "I want them to go back to Germany, to France, to different European countries from where they came." And I said to the European countries -- I said to all of them, "Take the people back." And they said, "No, no, no. We dont want to do it. We dont them back." I said, "Well, they came from Germany or they came from France.
Take them back." And theyre so used to the United States being a sucker, being a fool -- were talking about billions and billions of dollars. Youre talking about life. Youre talking about so many things, so many elements -- and elements of complexity. Because theyre going to walk back into Germany. Theyre going to go back into these countries from where they came.
So I said, "Take them back." And they said, "No." And then I said again, "Im going to give you another 30 days. Take them back." And they kept saying, "No." Maybe they wont be saying "no" now. I dont know. So I told President Erdoğan, "You got to -- its going to be your responsibility." Now, really, whos responsible -- its really Russia, its Turkey, its Iran, its Iraq, and its Syria, and anybody else in the neighborhood.
Okay? We call it the "neighborhood." Its not a friendly neighborhood. But these countries should do it. Now, ISIS is the sworn enemy of all of these countries. Many of them they hate far more than they hate us, and those countries hate them at the same level as we do. Theyre -- theyre terrible, terrible, savage killers.
I said, "Take them back." But these countries are rich, in most cases. Theyre powerful. Theyve got armies. They can do the work. But were not bringing 50-, 60-, 70-, or even 10,000 people to Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. Were not going to paying them for the next 50 years, or paying to take care of them for the next 50 years.
So we told Europe -- we did a great service to the world. And we did a great service to Europe in particular, where so many of these fighters came from. We said, "Take them back." And, you know, unfortunately, like NATO, they take advantage. NATO, as you know, I got the Secretary General Stolheim  said -- and, I think, very loudly -- the Secretary General of NATO, said that because of what I did, they have paid over $100 billion more money toward NATO defense.
But thats still not enough, okay? Its still not enough. Not fair. Because United States pays far too much, relative. And obviously, NATO affects them more. But, like NATO, like trade with the European Union, which is a very tough group to trade with -- very, very tough group. Almost as tough as Japan -- not quite.
But they are a very tough group to trade with. They take advantage. And I said, "Look, you take them back. Were not -- were not going to do this. Were not going to put in Guantanamo Bay and put them all over our prisons." So, right now, were at a position where, if Turkey does anything out of what they should be doing, we will hit them so hard on the economy.
But when you talk about soldiers -- we only had 50 soldiers in the area. I think the area was -- its a very small area and -- very small area. But we only had 50 soldiers there. I dont want them to be in a bad or compromising position. And I will tell you this: Everybody respects our country again. If we want to go in, if we have to go back for any reason -- because bad things happen.
But were 7,000 miles away. These ISIS people -- whatever you want to call them -- these people are right there. Theyre right there. Theyre touching many of these countries that I just named. Iran, as an example, hates ISIS. And ISIS hates Iran. Iraq, you know all about that. Turkey, Syria -- let them take care of it. Let them take care of it. We want to bring our troops back home.
Its been many, many years. Its been decades, in many cases. We want to bring our troops back home. And I got elected on that. If you go back and look at our speeches, I would say, "We want to bring our troops back home from these endless wars." And were like a police force over there. Were policing. Were not fighting; were policing.
Were not a police force. Were the greatest military force ever assembled because of what Ive done over the last three years with $2.5 trillion, Mr. Ambassador, weve spent on our military -- $2.5 trillion. But were not going to be there longer. And were going to be watching Turkey and we hope that them and all of the other countries -- or some of the other countries, including the European Union -- goes in and does whatever theyre supposed to do with these captured ISIS fighters and families. Okay?
Yeah.
Sure.
Sure. I consulted with everybody. I always consult with everybody. If you remember, about eight months ago, I talked about doing this. And we kept 2,000 people there, and then slowly brought them out. But once we captured ISIS, I didnt see -- I dont want to stay there for the next 40 years. Its not going to do anything.
The end game is going to be the same. I have great respect for all of the people that you named. And they have their opinion, and a lot of people do. And I could also name many more than you just named of people that totally are supportive. You see the names coming out; people are extremely thrilled because they say its time to bring our people back home.
Were not a police force. Theyre policing the area. Were not a police force. The UK was very thrilled at this decision. As you know, theyre over there -- they have soldiers over there also. And others. But many people agree with it very strongly. And I understand both sides of it. I fully understand both sides of it. But I campaigned on the fact that I was going to bring our -- our soldiers home, and bring them home as rapidly as possible.
I, we, all together, you -- we defeated and took over 100 percent of the ISIS caliphate. Everybody said that was going to be an impossible thing to do. I did it, and I did it quickly because we have a great military now. When I took over our military, we didnt have ammunition. I was told by a top general -- maybe the top of them all -- "Sir, Im sorry.
Sir, we dont have ammunition." I said, "Ill never let another President have that happen to him or her." We didnt have ammunition. Now, weve captured ISIS. Weve done what weve done. We had 50 soldiers in the area youre talking about. And I said, "We want to bring our soldiers back home. Its been a long time." Again, we were supposed to be in there for a -- just a tiny spot.
Like, a 30- to 90-day period. That was many years ago. Its time.
Thats true. And weve lost a lot of fighters, too.
Well, were going to try. If you look at some of the Kurds, as you know, that was -- thats a natural enemy of -- of Turkey. Its -- you know, specifically, as I said. I mean, they have natural enemies. Theyve been fighting each other for -- somebody said, today -- hundreds of years. I mean, one historian said theyve been fighting for hundreds of years.
We interject ourself into wars, and we interject ourselves into tribal wars and revolutions and all of these things that are very -- theyre not the kind of thing that you settle the way wed like to see it settled. It just doesnt -- it just doesnt work that way. But hopefully, thatll all be very strong and strongly done.
Were spending tremendous amounts of money. I can tell you, the two countries that are most disappointed that were leaving are China and Russia because they love that were bogged down and just watching and spending tremendous amounts of money instead of continuing to build our forces. We have tremendous new weapons under development now.
We have weapons that nobody can even believe. Were going to be making some stops over the next four or five weeks. Some we show, some we dont show. But weve rebuilt our nuclear. Weve renovated and rebuilt nuclear. Were building submarines the likes of which has -- theyve never been even thought of before, the genius of them.
Hopefully and hope to God we never have to use them. But we are doing what we have to do. But weve been there for many years. Long -- many, many, many years beyond what we were supposed to be -- not fighting, just there. Just there. And its time to come back home. But I can understand the other side of it. But if you go by the other side, that means we should never, ever come home.
We should never, ever come home. And, you know, I have to sign letters often to parents of young soldiers that were killed. And its the hardest thing I have to do in this job. I hate it. I hate it. Afghanistan. I signed one the other day -- Iraq, Syria. They get blown up by mines. They get taken out by a sniper.
And I have to write letters to people. And we make each letter different. Each person is different. And we make them personal. But no matter what you do, its devastating. The parents will never be the same. The families will never be the same. People are killed. Many people are still being killed. Its going to go on that way for perhaps a long time.
And were willing to do what we have to do, but there has to be an end game. And if you stay, its going to be the same thing. Eventually, youre going to have to leave. Its going to be the same thing. So, I think what were doing is the right thing. A lot of people agree with me. A lot of people agree with me. And again, you go back and see my speeches, a big part of my speech and always -- when I won what some people consider to be a surprise election -- now I just see a poll that just came out where Im up massively with independent voters.
I dont know if its this or because of the hoax, you know, thats going on with Nancy Pelosi and her -- her friend, Adam Schiff. Hes another beauty. He got caught lying all over the place. He doesnt know what to do. Hes a mess. Right now, hes a mess. And everybody knows it. Just all you have to do is a little good reporting, youll see hes a total mess because he got caught.
But, you know, we have to do the right thing for our country, whether it -- whatever it may be. And I just think thats the right thing. I respect both opinions. The problem with the other opinion is: When do we leave? When do we leave? Were going to stay there forever? Yeah, Jeff.
Yeah.
Well, first of all, the impeachment inquiry is a scam. The conversation that I had with the Ukrainian President Zelensky was a very good conv- -- it was a very cordial, very good conversation. The mistake they made -- the opponents, the opposition, the Democrats, the radical Left, deep state, whatever you want to call them -- they came out with a whistleblower report before they saw the conversation.
Had they waited one day, Nancy Pelosi wouldnt have made a fool out of herself, and she would have been able to say what I said. Because when she saw it, she said, "This is not what the whistleblower said." I had a very, very congenial, nice conversation with a man that I like. And he ran on corruption. Because, as you know, Ukraine is known as a very corrupt country -- one of the most in the world, shockingly, because I know Ukrainian people.
Its surprising to me. But its known as one of the most corrupt countries. And under the past leadership, it was having a lot of difficulty. This gentleman -- the current President, the new President -- ran on the basis of anti-corruption, as you know. I think it was his single-biggest thing. And we had a great conversation, but it wasnt reported that way.
The only reason I would have released a letter -- because I think its terrible to have to release a letter that you have with the leader of a country. I think its a terrible precedent. But the whistleblower report or whatever the news was, was so off. It was so horrible. I said, "I never said that." I said, "Let me see it." We have a stenographer report.
We have a very, very word-for-word report of what I said; I released it. And almost everybody that read it said its either perfect or really very good. But its a very normal, nice conversation. And when you see that the President of Ukraine, President Zelensky, said, "There was no pressure put on me whatsoever." His spokesman came out two days ago -- said there was absolutely no pressure put on the President.
I didnt tell him to say that. There was no pressure put on him. All you have to do is read the report. The problem is, I released it a day after they had already made their big statements. And again, its a big scam. And I think Adam Schiff should be investigated for what he did. He took to the great Chamber -- Congress -- and he made a speech.
And his speech was a fraud. Everything he said was a fraud. He went out as though I wrote it. He defrauded the American people. He defrauded Congress. He defrauded himself and his family. He made a speech as -- it was a horrible speech. I said, "What is this go- -- whats going on here?" I think hes having some kind of a breakdown.
Because he got up and made a speech that bore no relationship to what the conversation was. And Ill tell you, a lot of people heard that speech and a lot of people thought thats what I said because they heard his speech. Because theyre not going to read a three- or four-page conversation. They dont have access to it. But I thought it was one of the -- I thought it was a terrible thing, where hes going up speaking as the President of the United States, saying things that I never said.
And the meaning was horrible. And the whole thought was horrible. And then, the whistleblower, he did -- through his committee, through himself -- he met with a whistleblower. They never said that. They never talked about it. And Nancy Pelosi knew all of this stuff. I mean, shes as guilty as he is because she knew all of that.
She knew everything about it. And she didnt do anything about it. And Ill tell you what: They should really be looked at very strongly because what they did is unthinkable. What they did to this country is unthinkable. And its lucky that Im the President, because I guess -- I dont know why -- a lot of people said very few people could handle it. I sort of thrive on it. You know why?
Because -- because its so important that we get to the bottom. We went through the whole Mueller scam -- two and a half years. We went through that. And I had three, four days where it was, like, over. And then Im walking into the United Nations, and they released it as Im walking in, Mr. Ambassador. Im walking in. Im going to meet with -- I wont name, but one of the top leaders of the world.
And I see up on the screen and people start screening about this scam called "impeachment." You cant impeach a President for doing a great job. You cant impeach a President for having the lowest and best unemployment numbers that weve had in 51 years. You cant impeach a President for tax cuts and regulation cuts and creating -- and even the Ambassador would say -- the strongest economy in the world.
We have the strongest economy in the world. This is a scam. And the people are wise to it. And thats why my polls went up, I think they said, 17 points in the last two or three days. Ive never had that one. Ive never had that one. So, I think its very sad for our country. I think it makes it harder to do my job.
But I do my job, and I do it better than anybody has done it for the first two and half years, based on results. I mean, you look at not only the unemployment numbers -- look at the employment numbers, Jeff. We have -- were up to almost 160 million people are working. And now, today, weve signed the deal with Japan, which is such an honor.
