Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Listening Session|Congress
Thank you all for being here. I had a lot of good discussions this morning. Im negotiating a lot of contracts that are saving billions and billions of dollars for the American people and for all of us, and Im very proud of it.
You know, the F-35 fighter jet, the Air Force One program, which was totally out of control and now its back where its supposed to go, and many other things. In addition, I had a very good phone call this morning about a major plant thats moving back into the United States. Well be talking about it soon.
And what I do have is a little free time at about 12 oclock. So I dont think the press will want to show up, but I think Ill have a press conference probably at 12 oclock in the East Room. We had a little time in between things. So if the press would like to show up -- will anybody show up to that press conference?  Historically, they didnt care about these things. For me, they show up. So I think 12 oclock in the East Room of the White House well have a press conference.
I just want to thank you folks for coming today. This was good. This was scheduled a long time ago -- some of my very, very early supporters. And Ive been your supporter also. Were doing really well. The fake-news media doesnt like talking about the economy; I never see anything about the stock market sets new records every day. I never see it. But I think the people understand it.
Were giving a speech in Melbourne, Florida on Saturday. I think its going to be around 4 oclock. and I hear the tickets, you cant get them, but thats okay. Its better than you have too many, right? So its going to be great. I look forward to that. So that will be Melbourne at 4 oclock.
I really appreciate you folks. You folks have been so great. And right from the beginning, and, Tom, right at the beginning. Just about every one of you, right at the beginning. Some of you were a little after the beginning.  But we forgive. But we forgive.
Lets go around, just for the media, and youll introduce yourselves and then well start talking, and Ill see the media back at 12 oclock. Chris?
These are real friends.
Thank you. Thats right.
Thats right. Were going to give you some money for transportation. Thats good. Good territory.
Thats right.
Thank you. Thank you.
Uh oh.
I think this is great.
Thats beautiful. Thank you.
Hes a talented guy, I can see that.
Its nice.
Right.
Thank you very much.  Okay. All right. Thank them for me.
Thank them for me. Rick, we know who you are.
Were going to get it done. And the health care is going really well. And now that we finally have Tom, Tom Price -- so thats a big thing. I mean, we couldnt get him.
We are going to be announcing -- I guess Ill do it at 12 oclock -- a new Secretary of Labor, who is really phenomenal. So that will be at 12 oclock. And were getting -- I mean, this is the slowest in history, the approval of a Cabinet. And these people are outstanding people. The man Ill be announcing for Labor is a star, great person. A great person.
And so I look forward to that. But I appreciate everything youve done. Youve been fantastic, and I appreciate that. Thank you.
I know, Mike.
We did okay.
We took an area that wasnt a big Republican area, and we swamped them, right?
Wow.
Well, thank you very much.
Hes a great guy.
He played well, Ill tell you. And you know, we played with Ernie Els. I called up Billy -- I said, see if you can get me somebody good to play with; I have the Prime Minister of Japan who wants to play golf. So we get to the front of the club, and Ernie Els is waiting for us. He said, when youre ready. So we had a good time.
No, he played very nicely, and hes a great guy. Youre going to like him. I like him.
Well, we had a good feeling.
Well, I always said about President Obama, its great to play golf, but play golf with heads of countries. And, by the way, people like yourself, when youre looking for votes, dont play with your friends who you play with every week.  Does that make sense?
I hit it off with the Prime Minister. He is a fabulous guy. Hes -- loves his country. And we spoke all day long and well into the night. As you know, they launched a missile in North Korea, and we were discussing that. So it was really something.
But have a good time over there.
And give him my regards.
He was.
Theyre all good.
Right.
Shes fought hard. Shes fought hard. Yes. You know what, if you would, Billy, why dont you give me that request? And well see if we can do that.
Marsha.
Were going to get it.
Thank you very much, everybody. Ill see you at 12 oclock if you want. If you dont want, dont be there.  If you dont show up, I wont be offended.
