Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Signs Veterans Choice Act|April 19, 2017
Good morning. Were honored to join and be joined today by some absolutely tremendous people and great veterans. Thanks, as well -- and I have to thank them dearly -- but as well to Representative Phil Roe. Where is he? What a job youve done. And all the members of Congress who worked on the bill that were about to sign. Such an important bill.
I especially want to thank Senator John McCain and Senator Johnny Isaacson. They have been incredible in working with us. Let me also welcome my good friend, Florida Governor Rick Scott, a Navy veteran whos here with us to represent more than a million veterans from the state of Florida. Were also joined by the leaders of a number of veterans groups. I want to thank all of them for being here and all of the tremendous and important work that they do. We would not be here if it werent for them, I can tell you that.
Finally, I want to thank our Secretary of the VA, David Shulkin, who, by the way, was approved with a vote of 100 to nothing. Thats shocking, right?  One hundred to nothing, really. Now, you wouldnt be getting 100 to nothing.
We met earlier today in the Oval Office, and Secretary Shulkin updated me on the massive and chronic challenge he inherited at the VA, but also the great progress that he is making. Hes got a group of people that are phenomenal at the VA. Its one of my most important things. Ive been telling all of our friends at speeches and rallies for two years about the VA, how were going to turn it around. And were doing that.
And, actually, next week, on Thursday at 2 oclock, were going to have a news conference with David and some others to tell you about all of the tremendous things that are happening at the VA and what weve done in terms of progress and achievement.
The veterans have poured out their sweat and blood and tears for this country for so long, and its time that theyre recognized, and its time that we now take care of them, and take care of them properly.
Thats why Im pleased today to sign into law the Veterans Choice Program Improvement Act. So this is called the Choice Program Improvement Act. It speaks for itself. This bill will extend and improve the Veterans Choice Program so that more veterans can see the doctor of their choice -- you got it? The doctor of their choice -- and dont have to wait and travel long distances for VA care. Some people have to travel five hours, eight hours, and theyll have to do it on a weekly basis, and even worse than that. Its not going to happen anymore.
This new law is a good start, but there is still much work to do. We will fight each and every day to deliver the long-awaited reforms our veterans deserve, and to protect those who have so courageously protected each and every one of us. So weve made a lot of strides for the veterans. These are, like, the most incredible people we have in our country as far as Im concerned, and they have not been taken care of properly.
I want to thank David. Youve done an incredible job. And youre going to see some of that on Thursday. So thank you all very much. And were going to sign this. And I think Im going to have to give this pen -- the way I look at it, we should probably give it to Phil. What do you think?
Does everybody agree? I think Phil is --
Phil agrees. But congratulations, everybody. Really fantastic. Thank you very much.  Phil, maybe you could say a few words, if youd like.
Thank you very much. Its fantastic. And David? Wheres David?
Go ahead. I wont look back. You just talk.
Right.
Thank you. Great job. So again, next week, on Thursday, at 2 oclock -- it may change a little bit, but about that time were going to have a conference to talk about the progress and the achievement. Id like to ask Rick Scott, the governor of Florida -- hes done a fantastic job as governor, by the way, and really understands his subject, and really understands a lot of subjects. Rick, do you want to say a few words?
Thank you very much. Most importantly, thank you, thank all of the great veterans. Would you like to say something to all of these people out there? Youll become a movie star tomorrow.
