Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Belgrade, Montana|November 3, 2018
Oh, that is something. Thats a lot of people. Thats a lot of people. Well, one thing we know: we get the biggest crowds, by far. Theres no -- if crowds mean anything, were going to have a great Tuesday, thats for sure. Hello, Montana. I said I was coming back, and Im back. You know, good -- back for a lot of good reasons, but two good reasons in particular -- well get into that.
But I am thrilled to be with you in this great state. I love this state, and you like me, based on those numbers. Those were wonderful numbers. 2016, we had one of the all-time exciting days ever. It was something -- greatest movement, greatest political movement in our history. Thank you, and I want to thank Montana.
Believe me, you were a big part of it -- big part of it. Big, big part. In just three days, the people of Montana are going to send a great man, Matt Rosendale... to the United States Senate to protect your jobs, defend your borders, and continue with what were doing, and were getting there fast. Make America great again, right?
See all those hats? All those hats. Look at those hats. This is one of the most important elections of our entire lives. This election will decide whether we build on the extraordinary prosperity that weve achieved, or whether we let the radical Democrats take control of Congress, and take a giant wrecking ball... to our economy, and to the future of our nation.
America now has the best economy in the history of our country. Can you believe this? Right? I said it was going to happen; I just didnt know it was going to happen this fast. Its happened fast. You saw those numbers yesterday. In the last month alone, we added another 250,000 jobs, and nearly a half a million Americans -- its now going to be almost 600,000 Americans returned to the workforce.
Since Election Day, weve created 4.5 million new jobs. Think of that. If I ever said that during the campaign, they would not have allowed that to happen. They would have cut it. You know the way they cut the good stuff. They cut all the good stuff out. They would have cut that out. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years.
More Americans are working today than ever before, nearly 157 million Americans now have jobs. Weve never been there before, not even very close. African-American, Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment has reached the lowest levels in the history of our country. Thats not a bad sound bite. Is that a good sound bite?
OK. How do you lose the debate? Lets say were debating the radical, liberal Democrat over here, and they go, "Oh, theyre going to help jobs." I say, "Well, we had the highest jobs, the best jobs, the best employment number ever, the best unemployment numbers ever." What do they say? How do they counteract that?
Theyll figure something. Theyll figure something. Theyll think of something like Russia. "Lets see, Russia. Lets blame Russia. We wont say that she was a lousy candidate, and we wont say, certainly, that he was a very good candidate. We would never say that." Veterans unemployment recently hit its lowest rate in nearly 20 years.
Wages, wages, beautiful wages for the first time in years, wages are rising. Confidence is soaring. You saw the confidence level. Business confidence, consumer confidence, every form of confidence is at an all-time high, or very close, and America is booming. Republicans passed a massive tax cut for working families, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class.
And we then did the war on clean, beautiful coal, and we are putting -- and you see it better than almost anybody -- our coal miners. Theyre all back to work, and theyre going back to work. Clean coal, clean coal. Nobody thought that was going to happen so fast, either. You know, I was in West Virginia yesterday -- great people.
They like the mines, also. You know that, right? Who makes better coal? Whos got better coal? Huh? Well, they say they do. You both do. But I talk to the leaders of foreign countries. They love our coal, and were 65 -- either 55 -- Ive heard two numbers. Ive heard 55 percent and 65 -- either one is OK -- increase in the export of coal to foreign countries this year.
And by the way, its going much -- theyve just gotten started, because I make them buy it. You know, we have these crazy deficits, and we have these horrible trade deals. So I go in, and I say, "Youve got to buy our stuff. Youve got to buy our coal. Youre going to buy our oil. Youre going to buy our equipment, and our planes, and our tractors.
Youre going to buy our tractors. Youve got to buy everything, because were not going to stand for this imbalance." And theyre buying like crazy. Theyre buying so much, they dont -- they dont even need it. They just want to have me be happy. They want me to be happy, so theyre buying your coal, and theyre buying everything.
Theyre buying it. And if they dont buy it, theyve got problems, right? Theyve got problems. And were strongly protecting Montana farmers, ranchers and loggers. We have not forgotten you people, that I can tell you. And dont forget, for the ranchers and for the small farmers, and some pretty big ones, too, you dont have estate taxes anymore to worry about.
When you leave your farm, you leave your ranch, you leave your things to your children, your children dont have to go out and -- remember, they used to have the expression, "mortgage the farm"? That was for a reason. Theyd mortgage the farm to pay the estate taxes. You dont have any death tax, estate tax -- same thing.
You dont have the death tax anymore. Got rid of that. Steve Daines helped a lot. They all helped. Steve Daines -- good guy. Saw him speaking up here before. I saw him speaking. That guy is terrific. Hello, folks. So you dont have -- think of that. Think -- think of what that means, though, seriously. Now, if you love your children, you can leave that farm, or the ranch, or your logging equipment, your logging stuff, your trees -- you can leave whatever the hell you want, if you like them.
If you dont like them, then you dont care too much about this particular tax. But if you love them, you can leave them, and they wont have to mortgage the farm or mortgage whatever it is youre leaving, because they dont have to pay estate tax anymore. Nice, right? Its nice. Thats a big one. A lot of people dont talk about these things, like that.
Under Republican leadership, America is respected again... And America is winning again, because we are finally putting America first. Its been a long time. Weeks ago, we achieved another incredible victory for our nation. We proudly confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court... Justice Brett Kavanaugh.
And Senator Tester... voted against, voted against. And I dont know if you just heard -- did you hear? One of his accusers, false accusations, just came out a little while ago and said it was all a lie; that she never met now-Justice Kavanaugh. She never met -- it was a made-up story. She made up the story.
It was a lie. It was a total lie. It was fake. You know what fake means? It was fake. Now think of that. She lied about the story, about rape -- about rape. She lied. And were supposed to sit back and take it. And supposing he didnt get to be -- and hes a tremendous man. And by the way, what about the others?
What about the others? When are they going to say what happened? And supposing he didnt get -- supposing we didnt stick? A lot of people said, "You know, you stuck with him, sir. It was great." Supposing I didnt? Supposing I was like most other politicians, and I said, "Oh, lets -- lets cut, and lets pick somebody else." We dont do that stuff, because I always knew.
But she just came out and she said it was a lie. Its a damn disgrace. And supposing he was forced -- supposing he was forced to drop out and not become -- this is a great intellect, a great scholar, Yale, one of the top -- for years, theyve been saying he should be on the Supreme Court. Supposing because of these lies and this lie -- these lies, by the way, these lies.
But this lie -- supposing he dropped out? A lot of guys would have. I gave him credit, also, for sticking it out. That was brutal. So supposing he dropped out, we picked somebody else, and go through the process. Somebody else goes to the United States Supreme Court, but he drops out, and he dropped out because of a filthy, dirty lie?
Think about that. How about that, right? But you people knew what was going on. But you know what? Your senator, Tester... what he did -- what he did -- what he did was terrible. What he did to Justice -- now-Justice Kavanaugh -- Judge Kavanaugh at that time -- was terrible. It was terrible. And what the Democrats did to him was terrible.
It was a disgrace, OK? And I have to say it. Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters... if they gain the majority, they will try to plunge our country -- and its not even a question of trying; its whats going to happen, because their policy is so bad. You know, theyre lousy politicians, and they have lousy policy, but they stick together.
One thing Ill say: they stick together. They really do, the Democrats. They -- it doesnt matter what, even a hoax like they tried to pull off with Judge Kavanaugh, they stick together -- or the Russian hoax with the election. They use that as an excuse, because Hillary Clinton lost. Next time, theyll learn.
Youve got to go, and youve got to campaign in Wisconsin. Youve got to campaign harder in Pennsylvania. Youve got to campaign in Michigan. Youve got to campaign harder in North Carolina, you know? Not Russia. So they use that -- its a -- I call it "the Russian hoax." Its a hoax, and they use that in a -- as an excuse for losing the Electoral College that is set up that they should win the Electoral.
I mean, youd have to run the whole East Coast. You have to win so much, and its set up. The Democrats should easily win, but you know what? Hopefully, 2020s going to come along. Were going to do even better, even better. And Montana was with me right from the beginning, but you remember? These people back there, some of them, I see.
Thats a big -- thats a big crowd of people on a Saturday afternoon. The media. The media -- do you remember? "There is no path to 270." You need 270. "There is no path to 270 -- for me. But we got 306, 306. We got states that they didnt think about. They got -- we got states that havent been won by a Republican in a long time, and theyre great states, and theyre very happy right now because theyre doing very well, just like Montana is doing very well.
The Democrats want to raise your taxes, restore job-killing regulations. It will kill it. It will -- those regulations, dont underestimate that. The tax cuts were important, but those regulations would have plunged this country -- you would have gone down -- 4.2 percent GDP? You would have gone way down.
You would have had -- you would have started at zero, and you would have gone down a lot. They want to shut down your coal mines; that, you know. They want to shut down the timber mills; that, you know. But you know theyre going to shut down the coal. Oh, theyre going crazy over the nice, beautiful, clean coal.
And the beautiful thing is, if we have a national emergency, if we have a problem, big problem, theres nothing like coal. Youll truck that stuff around. If the roads arent there, youll turn it around and go through a tree. Those windmills -- number one, when the wind doesnt blow, they tend not to do too well.
Right? They tend not to do too well, and theyre extremely costly, and they need subsidy. Were paying massive subsidy. And of course, they kill all the birds, you know. Other than that, theyre wonderful. No, they dont work too well in times of national emergency. We say, "We need more energy, but the wind isnt blowing." One thing with coal: that sucker, you just keep piling it in there, right?
Right? Those miners. The miners knew what they were doing. And I dont want to speak badly about natural gas, because I know it. But they drop a little something in one of those pipelines -- thats the end of the natural gas, right? But the coal just keeps coming. So just hang in there, folks. Youre doing fantastically well, and Im with you 100 percent.
But they would have killed -- they would have killed the coal industry. It was gone. It was another year or two. The regulations -- people that are in the industry, they came up to me. They said, "Its one of the greatest miracles weve ever seen, because we had another year to live -- it was gone." Most of them were closed up, anyway.
And now, West Virginia, you have to see whats happened there, whats happened here, whats happened in other places. Its really incredible. And if you look at iron ore, where you need the miners, also, whats going on there -- weve revived the steel business. And now were taking in Minnesota, we opened it up. The finest in the world -- finest in the world -- the iron ore, and its coming in. Instead of dumping crap all over our country, they dump steel in order to put our steel plants out of business.
And then what theyll do is after theyre totally out -- and by the way, you talk about the coal industry; the steel industry was dead. It was going to be dead within a couple of years. It was on its last legs, and now its one of the hottest industries in our country. You have to see, U.S. Steel, what theyre doing... Nucor, building new plants, expanding old plants.
And were doing good steel, quality steel. Were not taking the junk that gets dumped on our borders. I know a lot about steel. When you have good structural steel for buildings, and for things like airplanes, jet fighters, commercial planes, you want the finest steel in the world. You dont want stuff that was dumped on your shore.
You have no idea what the hell is in there. So its a whole different world, but our steel industry is booming. Theyll end up taking away your healthcare. You know whats going on with that. Its such a disaster. Youll end up tripling your tax. Your tax is going to go through the roof, and it still wont pay for it. They basically want to impose socialism in the United States.
They want to... they want to erase your borders. Your socialism hasnt done very well for Venezuela. Would you say thats not too good? You know, Venezuela, 20 years ago -- less -- was the wealthiest country in that part of the world, by far. Today, they cant buy a loaf of bread. Thats socialism. Thats socialism.
The Democrats want to invite caravan after caravan of illegal aliens to flood into your communities... depleting our resources and overwhelming our nation. We dont want that. And did you see where Homeland Security -- you know, they were saying, "How do you know? How do you know?" Theres some bad people, as I said the other -- bad hombres.
Theres some bad hombres in that group. So they came out with a list of 300 really bad ones, really bad ones. Theyre in there, and now they have worse caravans, actually, worse caravans being formed. Its terrible. The Democrats only believe in defending the borders of foreign countries. They dont want to defend our border, but of foreign countries?
Thats fine. And were straightening that whole mess out, too. Its happening fast. Republicans believe we must defend our borders. We have to defend the borders of our country, and that country is a country that we love, the United States of America. The choice in this election could not be more simple.
A Republican Congress means more jobs and less crime; a Democrat Congress means more crime and less jobs -- very simple, right? I like that. Nothing like simplicity. So this Tuesday, you have to get out and vote. Just make sure. Do it sooner. I guess you cant do it later -- unless youre a Democrat. Then you can do it later.
Then you can. Im sure theyll -- theyll have no problem. Joining us this afternoon is your terrific Republican senator whos a real friend of mine, Steve Daines. Where is Steve, by the way? Where is he? Where is he? Come here. Ive got him. Come here, Steve. I know he just spoke. I saw him on the plane.
Unfortunately, they didnt -- you couldnt hear him. They didnt -- you couldnt listen to the beautiful words, but... So Steve had a little family problem, because during our big vote, as you know, he was here. I said, "Steve, why dont you bring the beautiful couple?" And it is -- "Bring them to Washington.
Well make it a historic marriage." But Ill tell you one thing: If we needed his vote, he was on the line. He was ready to take off, werent you, huh? Hes been my friend. Hes been our friend, and he loves you folks. Thanks, Steve. Fantastic guy. Thank you. On Tuesday, the people of Montana are going to head to the polls to elect a great, new senator to serve alongside of Steve, and to represent your state, and they will represent your state very well, the both -- the people that Im talking about.
Remember this: a vote for Matt Rosendale, who is a worker... is a vote for low taxes, low unemployment, strong borders and Montana values, real Montana values. A vote for Matts opponent, far-left Democrat Jon Tester... and by the way, who will never vote for us, just so you understand. I know hes saying wonderful things now about me, and he might be a nice guy, except he tried to destroy Admiral Ronny Jackson... who didnt do -- whos the most clean-cut, wonderful person that youve ever met.
He tried to destroy him, and Ive never forgotten it, and its honestly one of the reasons that Ive been here so much. It really is. It really is. It really is. Its a disgrace. What he did to that man... He was President Obamas doctor, President Bushs doctor. He was an admiral and a doctor. His son graduated last year, high in his class from Annapolis.
His son is this beautiful, great son, this incredible family and wife. He tried to destroy that man, all because I said, "Ronny, what do you think about heading up the V.A.?" And he didnt want -- he -- he said, "Sir, Ill do whatever your -- your order is." I said, "Well, I dont want to make it an order.
Would you do it?" "Only if you want me to." So he would -- didnt want it. Its called "Welcome to the world of politics." So he said, "Sir, if you want," and I said, "Id like to have you do it. Youre an admiral. Youre a great leader. Youre a doctor, incredible family, zero problem in your past -- zero." I said it about two people.
I said that to Admiral/Dr. Ronny Jackson, and I said it to Brett Kavanaugh. I said, "Brett, congratulations. Im choosing you, and youre going to go so fast. This is going to be so easy. Youre perfect -- the best education, the best marks, best grades. Youre a great intellect. Youre a great scholar.
You have an incredible family. You have nothing in your past. Brett, congrat -- " He said, "This is the greatest day of my life. Thank you, sir." I said, "This will go so quickly in the Senate." And they tried to destroy him. And it was false stuff. Im being nice, because its Montana. It was false. And the same thing with Ronny Jackson, but with Ronny Jackson, it was one man who I dont even know.
I never met. Hes never called me, because he listens to Schumer. He has nothing to call me about. He will take a -- he will listen to whatever Crying Chuck tells him to do. But he doesnt call me. So I dont really -- I dont really know him. He might be a nice guy, but he tried to ruin an admiral thats as clean cut -- because you have a lot of clean-cut people here.
I can see it. But as -- you take the best person in this group; thats the equivalent of what this man is, and his family. And Jon Tester tried to ruin him in order to -- in order, what? In order, so Id pick somebody else to run the V.A.? What was the purpose of it? Really, what was the purpose? It wasnt a political threat.
Ronny didnt even really want to do it, in retrospect. I feel guilty, because Im the one that said, "You should do it," because I thought hed do a great job. And thats why Im here, and Im here also for two -- these two great people. So its a vote, really, to make Chuck Schumer the majority leader.
I dont think you can do that, and to put extreme liberals in charge of every single Senate committee. Jon Tester says one thing in Montana, but he goes outside and he says the exact opposite in Washington. I mean, lets face it: hes been saying great things about me now. The border, the military -- everythings great.
But you know what? On Wednesday, the day after the election, hell be saying the opposite. He wont even be saying it; hell just raise his hand: "No, no, no." And theres nothing we can do about it. Theres nothing we can do about it. I said that about Joe Manchin in West Virginia. I like Joe a lot. The problem is, hell never vote for us. And he did vote for Justice Kavanaugh, but he voted as soon as Susan Collins made her decision, which we very much appreciate.
But as soon as she made that decision -- and now, we had the votes, and then he -- like a quarter of a second later. It was a quarter of a second. She said, "And therefore -- " and I was waiting, because I said, "Joe, vote before. Dont vote after. Vote when we need your vote, not just because its good for you in West Virginia." And I dont think its going to help him in West Virginia.
In fact, I think he might have lost his Democrat base by doing it. Thats something nobody thought of. But when Joe voted after the vote by literally seconds, it was like, she said, "I am going to support -- " and then, boom! Manchin did... But with Tester, its an even worse situation. So Im here for that reason, and we dont want to have somebody thats lockstep with Nancy Pelosi, with Maxine Waters -- Maxine Waters... and Crying Chuck Schumer.
Remember this: Tester voted against your tax cuts. Tester voted against Kates Law... which is great stuff. Legislation named after Kate Steinle, who was gunned down by a five-time deported illegal alien who should have never been here -- who would have never been here, if I had my way. But we need more votes.
We need Democrat votes, because we dont have -- we have majorities that are like razor-thin. We need more votes. Like, in the Senate, we need 10 votes. We need 10 -- so we have to get 10 Democrat votes. Theyre not going to do that. Theres nothing we can do. We need 60, and we have 51, and out of the 51, we will, on occasion, lose one -- not often.
But Tester voted in favor of sanctuary cities. Tester joined... Tester joined every other Senate Democrat in supporting open-border legislation from the now-legendary Dianne Feinstein. So look, we -- we have a choice. We need the vote. Youll never get Johns vote. Youll never get Testers vote. No matter what you do, hes always going to vote the way hes told, and you need a man thats going to vote for your agenda.
Your agenda is Make America Great Again. Thats what your agenda is. Its very... Its a simple agenda. Its a very simple, very straightforward agenda. You know, the new campaign, its going to be "Keep America Great", right? I dont think -- as much as I love "Make America Great Again," I dont know that we can carry it forward, because people will say, "Well, what did we do for the last four years?
Are we still trying to do that?" No. Weve done so well, and we are ahead of schedule, and fairly soon -- I wouldnt sell the caps yet. Keep them for old times sake. Theyll be very valuable someday. But our new slogan will be "Keep America Great," because thats what were doing. If you want to stop the radical Democrats, you need to retire Jon Tester and support Matt Rosendale.
Matt, come on up. Matt.
Hello Gallatin County! Wow! Thank you, Mr. President. It is no secret that Montana loves our great president, huh? Thank you again for another record-breaking trip to Montana. Mr. President, you kept your promises that you made during your campaign, and for that, we are incredibly grateful. Promises kept.
I applaud your commitment to fighting for our veterans, and as a proud son and brother of a U.S. Marines, I understand the tremendous sacrifices our veterans have made to this nation. Many veterans are here with us today, and I thank you for your service, and I think we all should give them a tremendous round of applause.
You folks know, Jon Testers had 12 years to fix the problems for the Veterans Administration, and he has failed us. We do not have proper staffing at our facilities. Veterans face long wait times. They cant see the doctors. Many are forced to go out of state to receive their healthcare. That is unacceptable.
Im tired of the politics and the excuses that have plagued the V.A. for years now. It absolutely has to stop. Our veterans kept their promises to this nation, and its about time our nation kept its promises to our veterans. To all the veterans, you can rest assured, when Im in the United States Senate, President Trump and I will keep our promises to the veterans.
You know, folks, Jon Tester must think were a bunch of fools. He pretends that he works with President Trump, when its all talk. He doesnt work with the president at all, as the president just explained to you. On every major issue -- tax cuts, building the wall, Supreme Court justices -- Jon Tester stood in the way and voted no. Testers last rally was with the former president of Planned Parenthood.
I am proud to defend life, and proud to have our president standing here with me. Tester has been too wrong for too long. On Tuesday, we can send Jon Tester and his lobbyist supporters a strong message: Montana is Trump Country... not Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi Country. We have three days until the election, and we need you to get out and vote.
Look at all the incredible work that President Trump has done. He may not be on the ballot this year, but I will tell you, his policies are. President Trump needs our help right now to win this race. I need your help right now to win this race. So please, go tell your friends, your family and your neighbors, "Go vote." Lets win this race and send Jon Tester back to Big Sandy.
Are you with me? Are you with me? All right. Mr. President, thank you for being here today. Thank you all so much for coming out today. May God bless each and every one of you, and these great United States.
Thank you, Matt. You know, Matt was a very successful guy. He didnt need to do this. OK -- no, I didnt either, of course. We both did. But you know, were having fun. Im having fun, because we are winning. Were winning so much. Were winning, and thats what we want. Were all winning together. Its not me. Were all -- were all in this together.
Were winning together. But he was a very successful man. He wanted to do this, and I said, "Go ahead." Then he did fantastically, really, coming out of nowhere. Did incredibly in the primaries, and hes a great, great candidate, and hell be a fantastic senator. Hell represent you well, so I hope you can get out there and vote for Matt Rosendale, OK? Another man who is incredible, actually, and so supportive, and hes been -- from day one, hes been just a fantastic representative of Montana.
Member of Congress, Congressman Greg Gianforte. He is fantastic. Greg, come up, please. Please. Greg is great on jobs. Hes tough on crime, and he will always support our veterans, our military, our police and our Second Amendment, and Gregs opponent, Kathleen Williams, is a left-wing radical. I dont get it. Whats going on in Montana?
Whats happening here? But truly, a left-wing radical who wants to massively raise your taxes and eliminate your borders. Williams supports Nancy Pelosis and of course, Maxine Waters Cap and Trade Bill -- thats another beauty, right? -- and would kill the Montana coal industry immediately -- I mean, immediately if they get in. If she wins, your Second Amendment -- and I know this is not something thats very popular around here -- your Second Amendment would be in big trouble.
Thats not a good... thats not a good talking point for them. So if you dont want to say the words "Speaker Pelosi" for the next two years, hopefully you can elect and extend, for a long time, my friend Greg. Hes a tremendous guy. Thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr. President. Two quick things: I want to thank you for giving me the great honor to be your lone voice back in the U.S. House. Thank you. And to this great president, Mr. President, on behalf of every person here in Montana, thank you for giving us hope again.
Thank you, Greg. Thank you. Doing a fantastic job, and hes very respected in Washington. I can tell you, some are respected, and some arent. I can tell you the ones that are, and the ones that arent, and he is. And Matt will be, when he gets there, theres no doubt about that. If Democrats get the majority, one of their first projects will be a socialist takeover of American healthcare -- youve been seeing it -- meaning taxes like youve never seen before.
The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than 40,000 Montana seniors. You know, the Montana seniors are a lot of them here -- incredible people. They depend on it. It would be obliterated. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who earned it, and who, by the way, paid for it, right?
They paid for it. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. I wish people would get that into their heads, because the other side is fighting pre- -- its the only thing they have. They have nothing else. Were going to protect pre-existing conditions. You heard it here. Youve been hearing it from me for a long time.
Remember Social Security, what I said during the debates, and everybody disagreed with me? We havent touched your Social Security, right? We havent touched it. Democrats plan to destroy healthcare also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants. I know the people of Montana do not mind that at all.
As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to violate our laws, disrespect our rules and overrun our borders. They dont mind. They dont mind. They want them to come in. Look at whats going on in California with your gubernatorial candidate. "Come on in. Were going to pay for your school, your education..." You know, I jokingly said a couple of weeks ago, "And then everybodys going to get a Rolls Royce." And the fake news -- one particular person -- said, "He said that theyre going to get Rolls Royces, and that is not true."
Do you believe it? You cant tell a joke with these people. You cant be sarcastic with these people. Im only kidding. They are not giving out Rolls Royces, please, OK? Fake news. The Democrat Party -- not the Democratic Party, but the Democrat Party wants to sign illegal aliens up for free healthcare, free welfare, free education... and what do they really want?
The right to vote, because they figure thats the way they stay in office forever. Remember that. Thats a big move. Illegal immigration costs American taxpayers more than $100 billion every single year, roughly 10 times the entire state budget of Montana. We need to use our precious resources to help Americans who follow our laws, not to reward illegal aliens who break into our country and break our laws.
Democrat immigration policies also enable drug smuggling, human trafficking and criminal cartels. Think of it: human trafficking. Do you know how bad? Thats the lowest form of human being that does that. They kidnap people, many, many women. They kidnap, and they human traffic, and theyre doing it in the world, worldwide.
The number one -- its -- its never been worse than it is right now because of the computer, because of the Internet. Its never been like it is. Human -- think of what human trafficking is. You would have thought that died out 300 years ago. Its at the highest level its ever been now, because of the Internet, and we are fighting it hard.
Were doing very well. Its horrible. Nearly 100 percent of heroin in the United States enters through the southern border, along with roughly 90 percent of cocaine, the majority of meth and a substantial portion of the ultra-lethal fentanyl, which is killing our youth. These drugs kill 70,000-plus Americans every single year -- thats 70,000 that we know of -- destroy the lives of hundreds of thousands of people.
Last year alone, our brave -- and you have to listen to this, because this number is unbelievable. Our ICE officers arrested more than 127,000 criminal aliens. Can you imagine? These are criminal aliens. These arent like -- and they want to get rid of ICE. Even you in Montana, youre not going to be able to walk around.
Youll be locking those doors. Youll be locking those windows. Youll be saying, "Oh, I wish we had Matt. I wish we had Matt representing us in the Senate." Including those charged or convicted are 48,000 assaults, 12,000 sex crimes, and 1,800 homicides. You know, you dont hear that. Im the only one that tells you the facts.
You dont hear that. Yet instead of applauding ICE as great nationally -- these are strong people. Were not going to send weak people to take care of MS-13. These are strong people, but theyre great patriots. They love our country. The Democrats want to abolish ICE. They want to turn America into a giant sanctuary city for gang members and MS-13 killers if they had their choice, but were stopping them.
They never thought theyd have a force like this. This was supposed to be a clear path. Guess what? This movement got in their way. This movement got in their way. And now, not only in their way, but now were pushing it way back where it came from. Came from hell. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens, and Republicans will always stand with the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol and your great law enforcement.
And border security is also very much a womans issue. You know, two years ago the fake news media was saying, "I dont know if this Trump is going to do well with the women." And they said it... I love you, too. I love you. No, they said -- you remember. "Will he do -- " I used to say to people, I said, "Whats wrong with going in here?" Except a thing called an election took place, and after the election, in between their tears, as they were crying, they were saying, "Man, did he do well with women." Did he do well.
You saw the numbers. The numbers are the numbers. But women want security. They want financial security, but they want security. They dont want to see -- you saw these caravans. They dont want that caravan, and, by the way, four others that are forming, okay, in countries -- in countries that we give tremendous amounts, hundreds of millions of dollars a year to in aid.
Right? Not anymore. They dont do anything for us. They talk. They talk. They dont do for us, and thats about it for them, because I tell you what: Ive had it. They call up: "Oh, were working so hard." In the meantime, Honduras and El Salvador and all these places, its horrible, what theyre doing to us. Its horrible.
And Mexicos trying, but I think maybe they can try a little bit harder.  Do you think? But I will say, these people were vicious, and they broke through into Mexico, throwing rocks. And so this is the second caravan, which is made up of some very tough young people -- very tough -- criminals in some cases, in many cases.
Theyll say, "Do you have proof?" Yeah, I have proof. They threw stones in the polices face. They hurt Mexican police. They hurt Mexican military very badly. They broke through. You saw it. It was on television. It was terrible. And so Mexico is trying. They are trying, but were different. We more than try.
We have our military now on the border. And I noticed all that beautiful barbed wire going up today. It was some -- barbed wire used properly can be a beautiful sight. Women want safe neighborhoods for their families, great schools for their children, and they want violent predators like were talking about to be thrown in jail or thrown the hell out of our country, and thats what were doing.
Thats what were doing. And you know, Ive been badly criticized over the last three or four days, because we built the greatest economy in the history of our nation. Jobs -- you people are big beneficiaries -- every state. I mean, look at Alaska. Weve got ANWR approved. Look at -- look at what were doing for every place, every state.
Oh, we have some Alaskans. Are you from Alaska? Wow, look at them. Theyre going crazy. You should. I handed you about $5 trillion, right? Its one of the largest oil reserves in the world. I got it approved. Started with Ronald Reagan -- they couldnt get it approved. Nobody could get it approved all the way back, and we got it approved, so thats good.
Oh, they -- I -- theyre from Alaska. Thats great. Give my warmest regards. They need warm regards. Give my warmest regards. Thank you, fellas. Thats very nice. But we do a job, and I get criticized because they say, "You know -- " By the way, if I did it the other way, theyd criticize me in this. But they say, "Why is he talking about the border?" Like theyre doing me favors, right?
CNN doing me a favor, telling me what to say. Right? CNN is telling me how to run the campaign, but in the meantime, Im president, and theyre not. And their ratings arent very good either, by the way. You know what? If theyd break it up a little bit. Give me, like, one out of 10, one out of 20 good stories, you know, like North Korea.
Like, give me a decent story on North Korea. Give me a -- give me anything. The economy, give me a good story, OK? You know, if the other administration had continued, our economy would have crashed, our country would have crashed. We would have been in a depression, because the regulations made it impossible.
It was heading down when I took over. And they like to say, "Well, Obama helped." He didnt help. We were going down, folks. We were going down. We were going down. We were going down. But they were telling, you know, giving me advice, a lot of them, oh, just so bad, so pathetic. MSNBC -- you ever watch this garbage?
MSNBC, telling me what to do. Theyve been hitting me for years now. Its actually hard to believe you can get elected. You turn on, and its nothing but fake news, horrible news, only -- I dont mind a bad story if its deserved. But when you do something great and they make it sound fair, just like, OK, you know, you cant make it sound -- they try to make it horrible, but you do good stuff, and they try and make it sound as bad -- MSNBC is probably worse than CNN, all right?
Its probably worse than CNN. But when you do this -- and then they tell you, "Hes got the greatest economy. Why is he talking about the border?" Well, you can only say so many times that we just created 250,000 jobs last month, right? Now, I could say it over and over and over again and youd appreciate it. But instead of this massive crowd thats totally filling up this big hangar -- that is a big hangar -- so much so that we have to go outside.
You know, were only outside because we picked up more space, and I assume the outside space is cheaper. I hope you didnt pay for the outside space. But once I say 250-, and then I say again, 250-, and again, and I tell you about -- I can only go for four or five minutes with that stuff. And then the crowd says, "We love you," and they start dwindling off.
But what I do is talk about some of the problems that we have. Our economy is doing great, OK? They think I should do it. Even some of the Republicans, they said to me -- except Steve Daines doesnt think that. He thinks I should talk about problems that we want to straighten out, because when were fixing a problem -- or fixed a problem, theres no reason to go on about it for 45 minutes.
But we have a problem at the border. We have a problem with illegal immigration, and the problem is that the Democrats will not allow us to change the dumbest laws in the history of the world on immigration, because we need their votes, and we dont have their votes -- or we can get more Republicans, which Id like even better.
But unless we get more Republicans, they have to change the laws, and if they dont change the laws, were going to have the problem. But now, were just going to toughen up with the existing laws, and thats what were doing. Were basically stuck with these horrible laws, and were toughening up our border like never before, and thats the way it is. But we have to talk about it. So the networks, they criticize me by saying, "Why doesnt he talk about the great economy?" And I just did.
But now we talk about problems that we want to fix. So were stuck with rotten laws, but we have some very good people, and theres nobody like our great military, especially since were fixed it -- we fixed it. And this election is about security, and this election is about jobs. For years, you watched as we let foreign countries plunder our wealth, steal our jobs -- you saw it. You were victims of it. But those days are over.
Weve added nearly half a million manufacturing jobs. That numbers gone up rapidly, too, by the way. Remember, youd need a magic wand. Youre never going to bring -- were not going to manufacture, right? I never understood that one: Were not going to manufacture anymore. Previous administrations. Youd need a magic wand to bring... Well, we did -- 32,000 last month, we got manufacturing jobs alone.
Very shortly, were going to be up to 600,000 new, beautiful manufacturing jobs. You know why? Because companies are pouring back into our country. Theyre coming back to Michigan, car companies, and Ohio, and North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida. Theyre coming back like you wouldnt believe. Theyre coming here.
Theyre coming all over. Now, we made a great new deal with Canada so you dont get ripped off anymore, because youve been hurt by Canada. And we love Canada. We love their national anthem, too, right? Do we love it? "Oh, Canada." Would anybody like to sing "Oh, Canada"? But they were not treating us well.
They werent treating us fairly. Now, we have a wonderful new deal with Canada, a wonderful new deal with Mexico. Its great. But were now taking in 1,000 jobs a day, and these are industrial, beautiful manufacturing jobs. Its the most in over 20 years. Nobody thought that could happen again. I recently announced that were replacing that horrible NAFTA deal, one of the worst trade deals ever made in history.
Nobody talks about that. You look all over this country -- you still have steel mills. You still have factories that are empty, that are dead for years because they moved to Mexico and Canada, and were replacing it with the new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, called the USMCA, which I like -- YMCA. If you have a problem with it, just think of YMCA.
Think of the song, and every time you say, "the USMCA," just think of the song and start dancing, because thats how good the agreement is. The USMCA is a great victory for Montana farmers and ranchers and dairy producers. Weve taken the toughest ever action to crack down on Chinas very abusive trade practices, and now theyre paying big tariffs on $250 billion, and that could rise very sharply, or we might make a deal, and if we dont, thats OK, and if we do, thats OK. Im happy either way.
Im a happy person. Im a very happy person. Im a much happier person than you would believe. But America is respected again. Every day, its promises made, promises kept. Thats what were doing. Weve made promises, but weve delivered on much more than the promises that we stated during the campaign.
Weve taken bold action to reduce the price of prescription drugs, and you see that. Last week, I signed the initial document. Youre going to see drug prices come down substantially. And a month ago, I called up Pfizer and Novartis. I called up these great drug companies. Theyre great companies, and I said -- they raised the price.
You saw that. They announced a big price increase -- big. I called up the head, I said, "What are you doing? You cant do that. Im reducing the price of drugs." And you know, the following afternoon, I got a callback. "Sir, weve decided to roll back. We are not going to increase the price of drugs." And then I realized how powerful it is to be the president of the United States.
Its the first time theyve ever done that. They rolled them back. And I thanked Pfizer, and I thanked Novartis, and I thanked all the other companies that did. They rolled them back. But were going to be reducing to help critically-ill patients get life-saving treatments, we just passed -- theyve been trying to get this for decades and decades -- Right To Try.
Nobody in this group, hopefully, ever has to use it, but you now have the right to go and get drugs that are in the pipeline if youre terminally ill or very sick, and you can get drugs that you werent allowed. You know why you werent allowed? Because they didnt want to hurt you. I said, "The persons very sick.
Theyre not going to be around. Theyre OK. They wanted to -- " And they said, "We cant do it legal." I said, "Well, you sign a document where youre exculpated from liability as a nation for allowing them to do this." They said, "Thats a good idea." Its -- its actually incredible. But its more complicated than that.
It wasnt easy. It was for 40-some-odd years, and we had a lot of help. Greg helped a lot. Greg helped a lot. Greg helped a lot on that one, and I appreciate it, and so did Steve. The combination of those two. But in the -- in the House -- Steve, wouldnt you say Greg was one of our big pushers of that one, right?
That was really something. Steve, thank you. Those two guys were great. But its very -- its -- its wonderful. You know, people used to be terminally ill. Theyd go and travel all over the world. Theyd go to Asia. Theyd go to Europe. Theyd go to Africa. Theyd -- thered be some kind of a thing that they heard of. We have a pipeline thats got some of the greatest potential for getting better ever in our history, and you werent allowed, through criminal procedures, to even think about using it. Now, you can use it, and weve had some phenomenal results, by the way.
So that was three months ago. And last month, I proudly signed the largest bill to fight the opioid epidemic in American history -- fighting hard. We passed Veterans Choice, and its such a big thing for Matt. You heard the way he talked. And -- but we got it passed, and now its being perfected. But having Matt in the Senate will be phenomenal.
But weve done a lot, and Doc Ronny, Admiral Ronny got badly hurt, but I will tell you, we have a great new secretary of the V.A. Hes doing a phenomenal job, phenomenal job. You know? Doing a great job. Hes doing a great job. But were giving Montanas great veterans now the right to see a doctor, a private doctor if they have to wait on line.
If that line is long, with -- I mean, people were waiting on line for 10 days, 30 days, 40, 50 days. I mean, Steve will tell you, we -- we had stories. And I kept saying, "Why dont you let them go see a doctor?" Number one, by far, its more important, but number one, they get better fast. Number two, we actually save a lot of money because they get sicker and sicker.
They cant get to a doctor. We have people that were sick, but not badly, and by the time they see the doctor theyre terminally ill, and thats no more. They have choice. They can go. They can see a private doctor, and we pay the bill. And we also passed the V.A. Accountability Law to ensure anyone who mistreats our veterans -- this has been going on for a long time -- is accountable.
So we say, "Youve mistreated our veteran, Jim. Jim, youre fired. Youre fired. Get him out. Get him out. Get him out of here." No, we had people that were sadists, I mean, stuff -- stories you wouldnt even believe. You dont -- you dont want to hear about this. Too many young people here. Too many young innocent -- theyre probably not so innocent, especially coming from Montana.
But theyre young, innocent people. But things that you wouldnt believe were happening, and you couldnt do anything. You couldnt do anything. Now, you can fire them immediately. You get them out. We secured $700 billion and $716 billion to fully rebuild the United States military, which it needed. It was very depleted.
It was tired. It was exhausted from fighting, fighting all over the place. Were fighting. Were defending all these rich nations. Theyre not giving us anything. Those days are soon changing. You see whats going on. Id say, "Why are we defending this nation when theyre so wealthy?" "Well, sir, theyre a great ally." Theyre not a great ally.
Were -- were taking care of their military. Its a very unfair thing. Thats all changing. Oh, I thought it was a fighter jet. It didnt sound that good though. The fighter jets, the new F-35s sound slightly better than that plane. And were purchasing the finest planes in the world. We make the finest equipment in the world.
By the way, much less importantly, in this case, but its all made in the USA, everything. Tanks, missiles -- were purchasing all of that great equipment. We make the best missiles. We make the best tanks. We make the best rockets. We make the best of everything -- all made in the USA, all brand new, all perfect stuff.
Our military will very shortly be, far and away, the strongest its ever been in the history of our nation, and hopefully, well have... hopefully, we will never have to use it. And you know the way you dont have to use it? By doing exactly what Im doing, OK? You go the other way, youll end up having to use it, and it wont be pretty.
At my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American Armed Forces, the Space Force. Thats good. Thats good. Space Force. Thats where its at, you know? Its like, sounds a little bit out there, but its -- and it is out there. Oh, thats beautiful. Hold that up. Look.
Thats beautiful. Thats beautiful. Its happening. Everyone wants it. But thats where its at. Thats where the future of the military, big portions of the military is at. So were going to be the Space Force, and thatll go pretty quickly. Its already started. I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal.
And we just announced that we are putting in place the biggest sanctions that weve ever placed on any country. The Iranian regime, what a deal they made -- $150 billion -- $1.8 billion in cash. You know, anybody know what $1.8 billion in -- in cash looks like? I dont even know. I dont know. No -- who knows?
Plane loads -- ridiculous. Weve recognized the capital of Israel, and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Together, weve made extraordinary progress, and were just getting started. But the Democrats want to turn back the clock, put America in reverse, and give power back to a corrupt, selfish ruling class that only looks for power and for themselves.
But we are not going back. We are only going forward. We need you to vote for a Republican House and a Republican Senate so we can continue this incredible movement, the greatest movement in political history, the greatest movement our country has ever seen. And with your votes, we will keep on cutting your taxes, reducing your regulations and raising your incomes, and thats whats been happening.
Your incomes have been going up. We will protect Medicare, and we will protect your Social Security, which they cannot do. We will defend your right to free speech, religious liberty and we will continue to confirm judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. We will fully secure the border. We will pass Kates Law.
We will stop sanctuary cities, stop catch-and-release, end the visa lottery, end chain migration -- you know how bad that is -- and we will keep the criminals, drug dealers, terrorists the hell out of our country. We will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity.
For years, you watched as your leaders apologized for America. You saw that. They apologized for our country. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America. We are standing up for your values. We are standing up for Montana, and we are proudly standing up for our National Anthem. I am asking every citizen from every party, every background and every race, color and creed to reject Democrat politics of anger and division, and reclaim our proud and righteous destiny as Americans.
We need you to get your family, get your friends, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and go out and vote Republican. This Tuesday, I need the people of Montana to send Crying Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi and the radical Democrats a message by -- and this is such a great message -- by voting for Greg Gianforte and Matt Rosendale.
So important. Loyal citizens like you help build this country, and together, we are taking back our country, and we are returning power to where it belongs: with you, the American people. Thats whats happening again. Thats whats happening. This great state was built by tough frontiermen and strong pioneer women who braved the wilderness to build a life and a home under the big, bright, beautiful Montana sky that the whole world talks about, the whole world.
The whole world talks about it, and I know why: it is big and beautiful. They didnt have a lot of money. They didnt have a lot of luxury, but they all had one thing in common: They loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God. These incredible, courageous Americans did not shed their blood, sweat and tears so that we could sit at home while others tried to erase their legacy, tear down our history and destroy our proud American heritage.
They didnt do it for that. They dont want to sit back and watch. Theyre not going to. For the sake of our freedom and for the sake of our children, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win. We will not bend. We will not break. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down.
