Donald Trump|Interview: Donald Trump With The Economist Editors|May 11, 2017
Sure.
Well its an interesting question. I dont think its ever been asked quite that way. But it really has to do with self-respect as a nation. It has to do with trade deals that have to be fair, and somewhat reciprocal, if not fully reciprocal. And I think thats a word that youre going to see a lot of, because we need reciprocality in terms of our trade deals. We have nations where... theyll get as much as 100% of a tax or a tariff for a certain product and for the same product we get nothing, OK? Its very unfair. And the very interesting thing about that is that, if I said Im going to put a tax on of 10%, the free-traders, somewhat foolishly, theyll say "Oh, hes not a free-trader", which I am, Im absolutely a free-trader. Im for open trade, free trade, but I also want smart trade and fair trade. But theyll say, "Hes not a free-trader," at 10%. But if I say were putting a reciprocal tax on, it may be 62% or it may be 47%, I mean massive numbers, and nobody can complain about it. Its really sort of an amazing thing.
So thats the story. It very much has to do with trade. We have so many bad trade deals. To a point where Im not sure that we have any good trade deals. I dont know who the people are that would put us into a NAFTA, which was so one-sided. Both from the Canada standpoint and from the Mexico standpoint. So one-sided. Wilbur  will tell you that, you know, like, at the court in Canada, we always lose. Well, the judges are three Canadians and two Americans. We always lose. But were not going to lose any more. And so its very, very unfair.
Now at the same time I have a very good relationship with Justin  and a very good relationship with the president of Mexico. And I was going to terminate NAFTA last week, I was all set, meaning the six-month termination. I was going to send them a letter, then after six months, its gone. But the word got out, they called and they said, we would really love to... they called separately but it was an amazing thing. They called separately ten minutes apart. I just put down the phone with the president of Mexico when the prime minister of Canada called. And they both asked almost identical questions. "We would like to know if it would be possible to negotiate as opposed to a termination." And I said, "Yes, it is. Absolutely." So, so we did that and well start.
We have a problem because we have a ridiculous provision in NAFTA that we have, you know, to go on the fast track. Fast track is the slowest track Ive ever seen. To go on the fast track you have to give notice. Well we gave notice 70 days ago. Its called a cooling-off period, OK? But thats not the way life works because when they call and they want to make a deal, I dont want to have to wait a hundred days. So I put the papers in almost 70 days ago, to get the approval for fast track in Congress. And they still havent given me approval. And the reason they havent is because our trade negotiator, who, as you know, the provision goes with your negotiator. It doesnt go from the time you put it in, it goes with your negotiator. So he just got approved. Hell be in sometime, I guess next week?
And the clock starts ticking. But here you have two people calling saying, "Can we negotiate?" I say yes and I have to wait for a hundred days. I dont know what a hundred days is going to be like. Whats it going to be like? So NAFTAs a horrible one-sided deal thats cost us millions and millions of jobs and cost us tens of billions of dollars.
Big isnt a good enough word. Massive.
Its got to be. Its got to be.
No, its gotta be. Otherwise were terminating NAFTA.
I was all set to terminate, you know? And this wasnt like... this wasnt a game I was playing. Im not playing... you know, I wasnt playing chess or poker or anything else. This was, I was, Id never even thought about... its always the best when you really feel this way. But I was... I had no thought of anything else, and these two guys will tell you, I had no thought of anything else but termination. But because of my relationship with both of them, I said, I would like to give that a try too, thats fine. I mean, out of respect for them. It wouldve been very disrespectful to Mexico and Canada had I said, "I will not."
We have to be able to make fair deals. Right now the United States has a 70Ñalmost a $70 billion trade deficit with Mexico. And it has about a $15 billion dollar trade deficit with Canada. The timber coming in from Canada, theyve been negotiating for 35 years. And its been... its been terrible for the United States. You know, its just, its just been terrible. Theyve never been able to make it.
Not necessarily. And certainly it can come over a, you know, fairly extended period of time, because Im not looking to shock the system. But it has to become at least fair. And no, it doesnt have to immediately go to zero. But at some point would like to get it at zero, where sometimes we can be up and sometimes they can be up.
No, I think it can be conceivably with lots of countries. The thing thats bad about the hundred days is, I said the other day, I said, "When do we start this negotiation?" They said, "Sir, it hasnt kicked in yet" because it goes with  Lighthizer, whos our, you know, our representative, who I think is going to do a very good job. I said, "You must be kidding." So its a real deficit. Now thats a NAFTA thing. Because everything in NAFTA is bad. Thats bad, everythings bad. But in the case of South Korea we have a deal that was made by Hillary Clinton, its a horrible deal. And that is the five-year anniversary and its up for renegotiation and weve informed them that well negotiate. And again, we want a fair deal. We dont want a one-sided deal our way but we want fair deals. And if we can have fair deals our country is going to do very well.
No, its not, really not a negotiation. Its really not. No, will I settle for less than I go in with? Yes, I mean who wouldnt? Nobody, you know, I always use the word flexibility, I have flexibility.   relationship with China is long. Of course by China standards, its very short , you know when Im with , because hes great, when Im with him, hes a great guy.
He was telling me, you know they go back 8,000 years, we have 1776 is like modern history. They consider 1776 like yesterday and they, you know, go back a long time. They talk about the different wars, it was very interesting. We got along great. So I told them, I said, "We have a problem and were going to solve that problem." But he wants to help us solve that problem.
Now then you never know whats going to happen. But they said to me that on the currency manipulation, "Donald Trump has failed to call China a currency manipulator." Now I have to understand something. Im dealing with a man, I think I like him a lot. I think he likes me a lot. We were supposed to meet for ten minutes and they go to 40-person meetings, OK, in Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach. And the ten minutes turned out to be three hours, alone, the two of us. The next day it was supposed to be ten minutes and then we go to our 40-person meeting. That, too, he was, no... because you guys were waiting for a long time. That ten minute meeting turned out to be three hours. Dinner turned out to be three hours. I mean, hes a great guy.
Now, with that in mind, hes representing China and he wants whats best for China. But so far, you know, hes been, hes been very good. But, so they talk about why havent you called him a currency manipulator? Now think of this. I say, "Jinping. Please help us, lets make a deal. Help us with North Korea, and by the way were announcing tomorrow that youre a currency manipulator, OK?" They never say that, you know the fake media, they never put them together, they always say, he didnt call him a currency , number one. Number two, theyre actually not a currency . You know, since Ive been talking about currency manipulation with respect to them and other countries, they stopped.
No. Because therell always be someone that comes along with another idea but its not a better idea. We have the better idea. But yeah, I think that a lot of the, like for instance today, health care. Very big thing. Very big. And it wasnt two bites of the apple. It was one bite. Somebody set a time limit and that was mistake, I said never set a time limit but somebody set a time limit. So when they didnt meet that time limit they said, "We didnt get it there", well, they shouldnt have set a time limit.
Right.
Oh sure, you know, I want to stop illegal immigration.
Oh legal, no, no, no. I want people to come into the country legally. No, legally? No. I want people to come in legally. But I want people to come in on merit. I want to go to a merit-based system. Actually two countries that have very strong systems are Australia and Canada. And I like those systems very much, theyre very strong, theyre very good, I like them very much.
Were going to a much more merit-based system. But I absolutely want talented people coming in, I want people that are going to love our country coming in, I want people that are going to contribute to our country coming in. We want a provision at the right time, we want people that are coming in and will commit to not getting... not receiving any form of subsidy to live in our country for at least a five-year period.
Oh yeah, no, no, no, no, we want people coming in legally. No, very strongly. Now theyre going to be much more strongly vetted as you see. You know, weve broken the all-time record  by many times, 73, were up to 73, its going to go up to almost 80% at the border, weve... you know, really stopped it. We also want farm workers to be able to come in. You know, were going to have work visas for the farm workers. If you look, you know we have a lot of people coming through the border, theyre great people and they work on the farms and then they go back home. We like those people a lot and we want them to continue to come in.
Well, it actually did. But, but its called priming the pump. You know, if you dont do that, youre never going to bring your taxes down. Now, if we get the health-care , this is why, you know a lot of people said, "Why isnt he going with taxes first, thats his wheelhouse?" Well, hey look, I convinced many people over the last two weeks, believe me, many Congressmen, to go with it. And theyre great people, but one of the great things about getting health care is that we will be saving, I mean anywhere from $400 billion to $900 billion.
That all goes into tax reduction. Tremendous savings.
It is OK, because it wont increase it for long. You may have two years where youll... you understand the expression "prime the pump"?
We have to prime the pump.
Were the highest-taxed nation in the world. Have you heard that expression before, for this particular type of an event?
Yeah, have you heard it?
Have you heard that expression used before? Because I havent heard it. I mean, I just... I came up with it a couple of days ago and I thought it was good. Its what you have to do.
Yeah, what you have to do is you have to put something in before you can get something out.
So I happen to think that 3% is low. But you cant do it if your companies are leaving the country because taxes are too high. Now, Im going to do something there too.
If our companies leave the country, number one theyre leaving for numerous reasons but one of the big reasons is the taxes are so high. When they leaveÑgo back to trade for a second, when they leave the country, go to a certain country wherever it may be, and they fire all their workers in the United States and on the assumption they build cars or air conditioners or whatever theyre building, and they open a plant someplace else and then they send the air conditioner or the car into our country with no tax, thats not going to happen anymore. Theyre going to have a very large tax to pay, in the vicinity of 35%.
Now when you do that, number one theyre not leaving the country anyway. So were not leaving. I dont know if you saw whats happening. Ford has announced massive expansions in the United States. General Motors cancelled a big plant in Mexico and a big plant in Europe. Theyre all cancelling plans because I told them, I said... I get along with them great. But I said, "Look, we dont mind if you leave the country. You can build all you want out of country, I hope you enjoy your plant.
But when you build your car, youre going to have a 35% tax when you bring it back in. And if your numbers work, we wish you well. But thats what youre going to have. Youre going to have a 35% tax."
So I mean, I have, it has, I havent been given massive credit for it yet, but I have been given some because I just see polls out in Michigan and different places, that really are affected by this, have been unbelievable, you know, much bigger than election day. But thats not a tax increase, thats no tax. In other words, all you have to do is dont leave and you wont have a... but were bringing our taxes down so low that you wont even need the barrier because the taxes are so low, that people are going to stay.
The other thing, just in case we... I believe it could be anywhere from $4 trillion to $5 trillion outside, you know dont forget weve been talking about $2.5 trillion for four years now. Ive been using $2.5 trillion rn, the same number weve all been using for years. Well, you know, it grows. I think it... I wouldnt be surprised if it was $5 trillion but, you know, were close. Were letting that money come back in. And that has two barriers which you have to watch. Its got a barrier of the tax, which we will take care of. Were going to make it 10%. Now its 35%...
The repatriation. Inversion. The corporate inversions, which is a disaster, with the companies leaving. But they want to bring back their money. Number one, the tax is too high but the other thing thats too high is the bureaucracy.
I have a friend who said even if you wanted to bring it back in you cant because you have to go through so many papers, so many documents, so many...
You have to do... Steve, they told me youve got to sign books and books of stuff, you pay millions of dollars in legal fees and they almost dont allow you to bring it back in.
It should be like one page.
Um. Little bit.
Depending. It depends on which plan, you know, which concept weve got to... but it could be. But I think the Democrats are going to like it. We may align it with infrastructure, which they like. They like it as much as the Republicans like it. We need infrastructure in our country. This country has wasted $6 trillion in the Middle East. Wasted. Like taking it and throwing it right out that window. Right in to the Rose Garden. See that beautiful Rose Garden? Look at those very nicely dressed people. Its religious liberty out there.
I dont know. Thats a very interesting question. I doubt it. I doubt it. Because theyre not going to... nobody cares about my tax return except for the reporters. Oh, at some point Ill release them. Maybe Ill release them after Im finished because Im very proud of them actually. I did a good job.
I might release them after Im out of office.
By the way, so as you know Im under routine audit, so theyre not going to be done. But you know, at a certain point, thats something I will consider. But I would never consider it as part of a deal.
I would never do it. That would be... I think that would be unfair to the deal. It would be disrespectful of the importance of this deal. Because the only people that find that important are the reporters.
Well, dont forget I got elected without it. Somebody said, "Oh but you have to do it," I said, "Look where I am." I was, you know, I was out front, I was asked that question, every debate, I said, you know, Im under routine audit.
Plus my financial disclosure is 104 pages.
Right.
Right, this would be the biggest tax cut in the history of the country.
Well, I dont believe that. Because theyre losing all of their deductions, I can tell you.
I get more deductions, I mean I can tell you this, I get more deductions, they have deductions for birds flying across America, they have deductions for everything. There are more deductions... now youre going to get an interest deduction, and a charitable deduction. But were not going to have all this nonsense that they have right now that complicates things and makes it... you know when we put out that one page, I said, we should really put out a, you know, a big thing, and then I looked at the one page, honestly its pretty well covered. Hard to believe.
Do you want to answer?
No, I would say probably... I think were contemplating is the word. And it hasnt been determined yet, but were contemplating.
Were contemplating various... I have to say, were contemplating various things, but one of the things thats very important is simplicity. We want to keep it as simple as possible. Because even if you do, its complicated. I mean even if you keep it simple with taxes it gets complicated.
Well, you know, a lot of people consider the border tax a form of VAT.
Part of the problem with NAFTA is that Mexicos a VAT. So Mexico is paying almost... we pay 17%. So we are now down 17%, going into Mexico when we trade. So thats like, you have a football team and every time they play a game, theyre down, you know, 25 points. How can you possibly do good?
You could actually make the case, that the 17 is doubled. You can make that case. You know, its 17 and its really 17 and its a double.
Well the concept of VAT I really like. But let me give you the bad news. I dont think it can be sold in this country because were used to an income tax, were used to a... people are used to this tax, whether they like it or dont like, theyre used to this tax. I fully understand because I have a lot of property in the UK. And its, sort of, not a bad tax. And every time I pay it, they end up sending it back to me. In fact, my accountant is always saying...
No, its really not so bad. Like, I own Turnberry in Scotland. And every time I pay they say, "Yes sir, you pay it now but you get it back next year." I said, "What kind of tax is this, I like this tax." But the VAT is... I like it, I like it a lot, in a lot of ways. I dont mean because of, you know, getting it back, you dont get all of it back, but you get a lot of it back. But I like a VAT. I dont think it can be sold in this country, I think its too much of a shock to this system. I can tell you if we had a VAT it would make dealing with Mexico very much easier. Because it could neutralise. And I really mean that. Part of the problem with NAFTA, the day they signed it, it was a defective deal. Because Mexico has almost a 17% VAT tax and its very much of a hidden tax, people dont see it. So, but these guys, instead of renegotiating the following week... many years ago, how old is that? 35?
But instead of negotiating, we suffered with this for, you know, for decades.
We are dealing with Congress... because its not really what Im considering. I mean look, on health care, I think we have a great bill and theres still a little bit further to go because were also dealing with the Senate, but the Senate I believe really wants to get something done because Obamacare is dead, just so we understand. Obamacare is absolutely dead. The insurance companies are leaving. Yesterday Aetna just announced theyre pulling out. You have states that arent going to have any insurance companies. You know when people say, "Oh, Obamacare is so wonderful," there is no Obamacare, its dead. Plus were subsidising it and we dont have to subsidise it. You know if I ever stop wanting to pay the subsidies, which I will.
No, this bill only gives them one month. They dont realize that, thats another thing. Good point. This bill gives them one month, it gave, you know the subsidy...
The subsidy to the insurance companies, yes. Anytime I want because actually...
In actuality Congress has to approve it. Congress...
If the bill doesnt pass, Id be in a different position. Because, if the bill didnt pass the Republicans would have let me down. And then Id have to decide what I want to do because I want people to have health care. Our health care is much better than Obamacare. Its going to be much less expensive. Were going to have competition, were getting rid of the state lines, etc etc.
The premiums are going to be low, the deductibles are going to be low. If it didnt pass... its a great question, I dont want to think about that but the answer is... I would do something to make sure the people have health care, as bad as Obamacare is.
Were not going to let people die on the streets.
OK. So we have a pool for people that are having difficulty. We have got a pool. Its a high-risk pool. And this pool we just funded yesterday, were putting in $8 billion, into the pool. So depending on what states do... because I would like to see states taking over health care, I think they could do a better job than the federal government. Now in some cases thatll be great, like in Florida that works fantastically with Rick Scott, and a couple of others. And in some states it isnt, where theyre not equipped to do it. But ultimately, you know I use the expression, "If you have a bad knee, I would rather have the federal government focus on North Korea than fixing your knee."
The state governments are in much better position to, you know, help people. In terms of, you know, just the size, the mere size of it. But were putting in $8 billion and youre going to have absolute coverage. Youre going to have absolute guaranteed coverage. Youre going to have it if youre a person going in... dont forget, this was not supposed to be the way insurance works. Insurance is, youre 20 years old, you just graduated from college, and you start paying $15 a month for the rest of your life and by the time youre 70, and you really need it, youre still paying the same amount and thats really insurance.
But I believe its very important to have this. Because one thing Obamacare did, is it gave that and it was a concept that people hadnt heard of. And now I dont want to end it. I dont want to end it for somebody that... first of all I dont want to end it for the people that already have it. And I dont want to end it for somebody that hasnt been buying insurance for all of his life where he has a guarantee that for all of his life hes been buying the insurance and he can buy it inexpensively when he turns 65 or 70 years old. So we put in a tremendous amount and were... you know, for the pre-existing conditions. We are going to have a great pool for pre-existing conditions.
Now, that will even get better as its going along, its going to get better. But in a way you could say, thats not really insurance, but its there. And I want to make it as... I want to make it actually better than what they have in Obama. Now, Obama has something thats very, very bad. Where you have to pay a penalty. And people dont realise, how many people are forced to pay a penalty and they dont get any benefit out of it. We dont have that. Were going to have much lower premiums and were going to have much lower deductibles.
They came through.
Ill be honest with you... Did anybody ever hear of a guy named Mike Pence? Vice-president of the United States?
Central casting.
So I know exactly the speeches youre talking about. I said, "Im not going to allow people to die on the streets", and I said it over and over and I meant it more than anything and I probably mean it more now than even when I made the speech. Were talking about the high-risk pools, Mike, and we just added $8 billion to the high-risk pools.
People are going to have... theyre going to have great insurance. Now, we have one more step to go. You know we have to go through the Senate and were refining it even further. But I will tell you, Mike, I just spoke to a few of the senators and they have some great ideas also and they want to get it there.
So, the problem with Obamacare? He rushed it through, he wanted... although, when I say rushed it through, at the end. They were giving up everything, they were taking out everything. It wasnt a pure form of what they wanted anyway. They did the Nebraska trade where basically it was, you know, the whole thing was given away.
Look, Obamacare was a disaster. Under Obamacare, you get your doctor; that was a lie. You get your plan; that was a lie. With us, you get your doctor. You get your plan. With us youll get hundreds and hundreds of plans. You know, one of the insurance companies, one of the big ones came to see me yesterday. Theyre so anxious to start going crazy and you know its going to be like life insurance. People that buy life insurance theyre inundated with carriers. All different plans.
Thats what this is going to be like. And I said to them, "What do you think the good plans are going to look like?" He said, "Mr. President, were going to have so many plans. Were going to have the low version, the high version", he used the word Cadillac. I wont tell you what car he used for the low version because I dont want you to write it because they happen to be friends of mine, you know, the head people.
Well I think the score is going to be the end of the game. To me the score is going to have to be at the end of the game. I was saying, Mike, that were going to prime the pump with the taxes because were going to take in perhaps a little bit less, but were going to have a lot more business, were going to have companies coming back into the country.
I hope you had enough time.
