Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Signs an Executive Order on Campus Free Speech|March 21, 2019
Thank you very much. Please be seated. I am truly delighted to welcome so many impressive young Americans to the White House. This is a very exciting day. What were doing is very important. And were here to take historic action to defend American students and American values. Theyve been under siege.
In a few moments, I will be signing an executive order to protect free speech on college campuses. Just the thought of it sounds good. Were grateful -- Its true. Were very grateful to be joined today by Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos. Betsy? Where are you, Betsy? Hi, Betsy.  And Secretary of Health and Human Services, who has done a really great job -- we have prescription drug prices coming down -- first time in 51 years, so -- Alex Azar.
Thank you very much, Alex. Most importantly, let me thank all of the college students and recent graduates here with me on stage. Incredible young people. These courageous Americans have stood up for  the forces of political indoctrinations -- and they really stood up to it, too, like very few people have been able to; censorship; and coercion.
You refused to be silenced by powerful institutions and closed-minded critics, of which there are many. You faced down intimidation, pressure and abuse. You did it because you love your country and you believe in truth, justice, and freedom. And I want to thank you all, everybody in the room, including a lot of folks in the audience.
Charlie. A lot of folks, Youve fought bravely for your rights and now you have a President who is also fighting for you. Im with you all the way. Okay? All right? In America, the very heart of the universitys mission is preparing students for life as citizens in a free society. But even as universities have received billions and billions of dollars from taxpayers, many have become increasingly hostile to free speech and to the First Amendment.
You see it all the time. You turn on the news and you see things that are horrible. You see people being punched hard in the face. But he didnt go down. He didnt go down. I said, "You have a better chin than Muhammad Ali, and he had a great chin."  And you see the cowbell scene.
You saw that horrible scene. That was a disgraceful thing at a school, at a university. Under the guise of "speech codes" and "safe spaces" and "trigger warnings," these universities have tried to restrict free thought, impose total conformity, and shut down the voices of great young Americans like those here today.
These are great people. All of that changes starting right now. Were dealing with billions and billions and billions of dollars. Taxpayer dollars should not subsidize anti-First Amendment institutions. And thats exactly what they are: anti-First Amendment. Universities that want taxpayer dollars should promote free speech, not silence free speech.
Todays groundbreaking action is the first in a series of steps we will take to defend students rights. We are proudly joined by several young Americans who can speak directly about ideological intolerance on campus. Here with us is Ellen Wittman, a junior at Miami University in Ohio. A great school.
Ellen is the President of Students for Life. In 2017, Ellen planned an annual event to display small wooden crosses representing the lives of the unborn. School officials informed Ellen that she would be required to post signs all over campus providing a "trigger warning" to other students regarding her display.
Ellen, please come up. Say a few words. Tell us your story, please. Thank you.
You watch, we will be witnessing today some great future political leaders. Theres plenty of them in the room. Not just up here, right? Out there too. We really appreciate it. That was beautiful. Thank you very much. Were also joined by Kaitlyn Mullen, a student at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln.
While simply standing at a table to represent a conservative group on campus, Turning Point USA -- which does such incredible work. And thank you very much, Charlie. Its true. Come on. We can give him a hand. Thank you. Kaitlyn was approached by staff and a graduate instructor, and was berated and cursed at. School officials tried to bully Kaitlyn into leaving, but she bravely stood her ground.
Kaitlyn, please come up and say a few words. Okay, Kaitlyn? Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Kaitlyn. Beautiful. And I have to say that, you know, we have -- in my opinion, we have more than they have. People dont realize that. You see whats going on. I just came back from Ohio. The streets were lined with people. I came back recently from Alabama, where they had that horrible tornado.
It was terrible. But the people were lined as far as the eye could see -- lined up with people. And were here. This is the White House. Im the President. And were together. And hopefully, we can bring everybody together. Thats really what we want to do. And they can have different views. And if they do have different views, we encourage that.
But they have to let you speak. They have to let you speak. Also here with us today is Polly Olson, a student at Northeast Wisconsin Technical College. Last year, Polly was handing out homemade Valentines Day cards with messages such as "You are special" and "Jesus loves you." College officials stopped her and told her that she would be restricted to so-called "free speech zone" because some people might find her cards offensive.
I dont.  I love that card. In fact, Polly, give me some. Ill send them around to my friends.  Polly, please say a few words. Polly. Polly, thank you.
So thank you all for your courage. Today, we are delivering a clear message to the professors and power structures trying to suppress dissent and keep young Americans -- and all Americans, not just young Americans like Ellen and Kaitlyn and Polly -- from challenging rigid, far-left ideology. People who are confident in their beliefs do not censor others -- we dont want to censor others -- they welcome free, fair and open debate.
And thats what were demanding. Under the policy I am announcing today, federal agencies will use their authority under various grant-making programs to ensure that public universities protect, cherish -- protect the First Amendment and First Amendment rights of their students, or risk losing billions and billions of dollars of federal taxpayer dollars.
Every year, the federal government provides educational institutions with more than $35 billion in research funding. All of that money is now at stake. Thats a lot of money.  They are going to not have to like your views a lot, right?  We will not stand idly by and allow public institutions to violate their students constitutional rights.
If a college or university doesnt allow you to speak, we will not give them money. Its very simple. At the same time, private universities should be held to their own policies on free speech. So, from now on, federal agencies will also use their grant-making authority to promote transparency for students at private schools.
These colleges should not be able to promise free speech in theory, and then impose restrictive speech codes in practice, which is what many of them do. Todays action is just the beginning of our efforts to protect free speech and advance our students rights agenda. What Ive been witnessing over the last long period of time, long before I became President -- what Ive been witnessing is outrageous.
This order will also empower students with vital information about the value of the programs they take on and -- having to do with debt. Student loan debt. Im going to work to fix it because its outrageous whats happening. Youre not given that fair start. Youre too far down. Its not right.
And were going to work very, very hard to get it fixed. But were going to start with 43 million people in the United States who are currently working to pay off student loans. And well be talking about that very soon. Were going to work on that very soon. Ive always been very good with loans and --  -- I love loans.
I love other peoples money.  And were going to work on it. I made a lot of money with those loans, and youre going to, too. Youre going to do something thats going to be fair and good. But were going to work with you very closely. The average student loan borrower owes roughly $35,000 dollars -- thats a lot -- and, in many cases, much more than that.
Ive seen numbers that go over $200,000. Youre behind the eight ball before you start. And yet, typically, students who take loans do not have access to critical information about what career outcomes they can expect from their programs, majors, or fields of study. They borrow more money than they can ever expect to pay off or pay back.
Many middle-class American families are getting ripped off, while tax-exempt colleges and large institutions, frankly -- they take these tremendous endowments. You look at the money that they have. Theyre making a fortune. For that reason, I am directing the Department of Education and the Department of Treasury to publish detailed information on future earnings and loan repayment rates for every major and every program at every single school.
Its very important. Todays order also directs the Department of Education to propose a plan that will require colleges and universities to have skin in the game by sharing a portion of the financial risk of the student loan debt. I believe -- . I believe that colleges and universities, their costs have gone up more than anything I can think of. Ive watched this.
And you watch companies, and theyll keep it the same for years and years. And you watch these colleges and universities and certain institutions, where it just goes right through the roof. And the reason -- theres no incentive to them to watch costs. You see people at the heads of the institutions being paid a fortune.
They dont care because the government loans the student the money, they pay the money to the college, and then the student graduates from college -- maybe a very good college, but they graduate -- or university -- and theyre stuck with $200,000 in loans that they wont be able to pay off for a long time.
So were going to make them have an incentive to keep their costs down. Right now, they have no incentive whatsoever. I watched this over a period of time, I figured it out very, very quickly. Im good at that stuff, believe me.  And I just see their numbers go up so rapidly because they just dont have the burden on them.
And were going to put burden on the institutions. We want them to get the best peop- -- teachers and the professors and the administrators and the heads, but the numbers are out of reality. And certainly, they make it out of reality for students when you have to pay back those loans someday. With todays action and every action to come, the Trump administration will fight for Americas students.
Were fighting very hard. And remember what I said: Were going to give the student loans -- where you have way, way over a trillion dollars in student loans -- were going to start looking at that very seriously and help some of those students that are just mired in debt. We know that freedom must prevail on college campuses if freedom is to prosper in America.
Its so important. And we believe that greatness must be practiced in our halls of learning if greatness is to thrive in our halls of government and our corridors of commerce. Youre going to have great lives. But I want you to get off to a great start, not a start where youre behind a barricade that just doesnt let you succeed.
And were going to make it much easier for you -- this administration -- and weve worked very hard on it already. Well be having some meetings. And well be having some very major discussions with some of the biggest colleges and universities. And were going to have them shoulder some of the responsibility and some of the money thats necessary for you to use in order to get your education.
To every student and young American here today: Dont let anyone stop you from doing what you know is right, from asking questions, from challenging the powerful, or from speaking your mind. And thats the primary reason were here right now. Youre going to speak your mind. Youre going to be fair. Youre going to reasonable.
Youre going to do it well. And youre going to speak your mind. Never ever quit, never give in, and never back down. Keep standing up for your values, for your classmates, and for your country. And you can be certain that, every day of my presidency, we will always support your rights, and your freedoms, and your future.
Thank you all for being here. This is a great honor for me. Ive been watching this for too long. Ive been watching things that are unwatchable and I dont like it. But were going to do something about it. See? We like to act, as opposed to just watching and saying, "Oh, isnt that a shame?" We dont say that.
We dont say that. And I want to congratulate everybody -- everybody -- for being here. You have just a tremendous future ahead of you and this will make it a lot easier. And you get that point of view across. And listen to the other point of view. Maybe you can changed and maybe not.
