Donald Trump|Press Gaggle: Donald Trump Speaks to Reporters After Senate GOP Policy Lunch|January 9, 2019
I would say that we have a very, very unified party. Mitch has been fantastic. Everybody in that room was fantastic. There was no reason for me even to be there. I knew that before we went. But the Republicans want border security. They want national security. They want to have a steel barrier or a wall of concrete.
They dont care. But Ill use any term they want. We need a barrier to stop the human traffickers and the drug trade, and to stop all of the big problems that come, including gangs. They dont come through your checkpoints; they come through areas where you have hundreds of miles without walls and without barriers, or without strong fences.
So the Republican Party, I can say -- and I just left an hour meeting. We had a great time, actually. There was no discussion about anything other than solidarity. We want national security and border security for our country.
Thank you very much.
Well, I may do that at some point. If Chuck and Nancy -- who Im meeting with, I believe in a little while -- if they dont agree to the fact that our country has really got problems with crime, with drugs, with a lot of other things that come through our southern border -- so much of it comes through the southern border.
If you look at heroin, 90 percent through the southern border. So much. So many problems. And if they cant get that through, or if they feel that, politically -- I dont know why its good politically. You know, I dont care politically. Im doing whats right for the country. But Ill tell you, its a very bad political issue for the Democrats.
That I can tell you.
We talked about -- a couple talked about stra- -- you know, a couple talked about strategy. But theyre with us all the way. Theyre with us all the way. I mean, I just want -- because, you know, the fake give the fake news. And I just want to tell you that the Republicans are totally unified. Now, if you would have asked the same question to the Democrats -- you let me know, in some of those districts where I won or that are a little bit more towards sanity -- you want them to run; say we dont want border security?
You got plenty of Democrats that do not want to be in this battle. You have a lot of Democrats. The Republicans are unified. We want border security. We want safety for our country. And, you know, for 25 years theyve been trying to do this. This has been passed. Chuck Schumer has raised his hand so many different times.
I could give you 15 speeches that he made, but I dont think youd really enjoy them that much. But I could give you 15 speeches. He talked about border security, no different than me. Border security. Thats all he talked about is border security. The only reason theyre against it is because I won the presidency, and they think they can try and hurt us going into the presidency.
But thats not going to happen. And we dont give up, because were doing -- were doing the right thing for our country. Okay?
You know why its gone down? Because of good management. Because of me and my people. Because weve managed it well.
But it is brutal. We have more people coming up. You have caravans. Nobody ever heard of a caravan. Its gone down. And we have kept it down because were managing it well. But we can never do a great job unless we have a wall or a barrier. And I mean a real barrier, not a little barrier that doesnt work.
