Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Lewis Center, Ohio|August 4, 2018
Thank you. Wow. Thank you, thank you, thank you, Ohio. I love Ohio. What a victory, what a victory. Remember these guys saying on television over and over again, "You cannot win unless you get with the great state of Ohio." We got this great state...
Remember they used to say that, "Trump cant get it because it all goes through Ohio." They didnt know that were going to win by a lot. We won by a lot...
We won by a lot. But Im thrilled to be back. This is an incredible place, and -- and weve done well. Weve really produced. You know, last time I told you what were going to do. Now you have the steel mills roaring again. You have people coming back into our country. You have all of these things happening...
Its much easier now. We have the greatest economy weve ever had. We have the best numbers. Were setting records in every respect, so its much easier for me to do this than it was when I was campaigning when I said this will happen. This is a much easier situation.
Its an incredible time for our country. America is respected again and America is winning again... Because we are finally putting America first.
About time. Our economy is booming. Jobs are pouring back into our country. Were bringing them back. Those companies that left they want to come back. This is where the action is. Were protecting American workers, supporting American law enforcement...
Including ICE. ICE, we love ICE.  Were building that wall. Were building a wall, dont worry. Weve already started. Weve already started. Were building that wall. Weve already started. Were doing a lot of things that people dont even know about.
Were defending our Constitution. Were taking care of our great vets. Our military will soon be stronger than it ever has been before. And the forgotten men and women of the United States are forgotten no more.
We are the great people. We are the great people. You work hard, you pay your taxes, you do all these things and you were forgotten. They forgot about you. And youre the smartest people, youre the smartest people.
You know what they talk about? They talk about the elite, the elite. Do you ever see the elite?  Theyre not elite. Youre the elite. You are the elite. Youre smarter than they are. You make bigger incomes. Youve got everything going, you know. So let them keep calling us that. You ever hear it?
Hey, you go to the best schools. You do a tremendous job. Your own companies. You work for tremendous salaries. You do all the things that you do. Youre talented with your hands, with your mind. And then you hear, "The elite has just said." The elite?  Theyre more elite than me. I have better everything than they have, including this.
And I became president and they didnt, meaning you became president. And its driving them crazy. Were honored to be joined this evening by many of your states great leaders, including your next governor Mike DeWine whos terrific...
And your next United States Senator Jim Renacci. Great people, theyre great people. And for the Senate we have to get Jim. We just have to get him in because ... Senator Brown is not going to vote for our judge. We have a great judge. We love Justice Gorsuch. Now we have soon-to-be Justice Kavanaugh. We need both.
We need Jim Renacci.  So vote for Jim. We got to get Jim in there. Hes a very important guy. Also here with us tonight is Ohio Speaker of the House Ryan Smith. Ryan, thank you. Thank you, Ryan. Ohio Senate President Larry Obhof. Larry, thank you. RNC Co-chair Bob Paduchik, Bob, I love Bob, I love Bob. You know, Bob Paduchick ran my campaign in Ohio. You know that, right?
And he was recommended along with five or six people and they were all recommended. And I sort of said, "I dont know." But one person said something about him that I liked. They said he never quits, he never gives up.
And Bob Paduchik, I didnt have the governors support. I didnt have senator support. I didnt have your head of the Republican Party support other than that hes doing very well.  But Bob said, "It doesnt matter because you have the peoples support," he said though. And you remember that great night in November...
When they said, after hearing so much about Ohio, and it is true you have to win Ohio. And they said, "Its going to be close. Hes going to be able to win maybe by two if hes lucky." That would mean it would take all night they wouldnt be able to say a thing, and they announced, "The polls are closed. Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio." Come up here, Bob, come up.
I never -- he never stops, and now hes working with Troy and hes doing good. You just said, "Hes going to be winning, Bob." When he says hes going to win -- I think we won by 11 points or something, Bob, right, 11? Oh, 8-1/2, well, thats ...
Well take that, well take that. Did you have to be so accurate, Bob?  Eight and a half points, we love Ohio. We love it. And Ill tell you what, were going to have a tremendous victory for Troy, Troy Balderson.
And hes the one I wanted to win. They had this false report that I was supporting somebody else, and they were right. It was fake news, youre right, so. And I was supporting somebody else, Steve Stivers, but hes in a totally different district.  Did they apologize? Did you apologize for them to say, no, I heard today - I heard today...
So, no, I did. I heard that -- you know, that Troy was like my second choice. I said, Hes my first choice. Hes always been the one I wanted to win, and its always dangerous when you do this. You know, you get involved in the primary. He thinks -- although I have done very well. They dont say -- they dont say our record in the primaries. They give us a lot of false records.
Katie Arrington, South Carolina, she was behind by a lot and shes fantastic, by the way, shes fantastic. And we endorsed her, and she beat a man that likes flamenco dancers from Argentina. You know about that. He was supposed to be vacationing on the Tallahassee Trail, but he was actually in Argentina.
I dont know. Jim, do they have a Tallahassee Trail in Argentina? I dont think, right? No? No, right? Jim Jordan, how great is he? How great is he? How great is he? Hey, come here, Jim. Come here, come here.
Thank you. The -- the -- the President is a little taller than me.
And -- thank you.
Think about this, in 18 months, regulations reduced, taxes lowered, Gorsuch on the court, economy growing at a record rate, unemployment at its lowest in 20 years, Kavanaugh is on deck on the court, were out of that crazy Iran deal. The -- the embassy is going to Jerusalem and the hostages have been returned from North Korea. Thats whats happened under the Presidents leadership. Thank you very much.
What a great defender hes been, what courage. Ill tell you what. Theres a brave tough cookie along with some of his friends. They are -- they are -- you know, I just look -- I didnt know he was going to be here. I looked over and said, "I dont want to wrestle him. Hes tough."
I think hes like 128 in one or something crazy like that. Did you ever win in this room, Jim? Did you ever wrestle in this room? You wouldve won.  Statistically, you wouldve won.  Anyway, thanks, Jim, for being -- I didnt know youre going to be here. Thats great. Thank you, man.
So, a woman -- a woman, a fantastic woman who came to me because, you know, I didnt have the head of the Republican Party on my side. I wont mention Matts name.
I was so nice to him, youre not go along and I talked, and I introduced him, his family, his wife, everybody was nice. And then one day, I heard he wasnt going to be with us. And I went, you know, to Paduchik. I said, "What do you think?" He said, "Your poll numbers are now going to go up."
But what happened is we decided, after I won the presidency, we decided, "Lets challenge this guy. Why should we allow that to happen?" And Jane Timken came along, and she was unyielding. She challenged him. And as you know, a lot of people were trying to push him over the line. That didnt work out too well because Jane Timken won that race, and she has been an incredible GOP State Chairman. Thank you, Jane. Come up. Thank you, Jane. Shes been incredible actually.
Finally, it is my true honor to introduce the person that were here for tonight. Hes really tough, hes really smart. He never stops working. Thats what Paduchik told me. I said, "How is he doing?" He said, "This man, he loves the people of Ohio. He loves the people in this district. He never ever stops."
Its Ohios 12th district, and hes going to hopefully be here for a long time. Hes never going to let you down. Ill tell you, I see it, I see it. And thats why were so angry when they said that I was supporting Steve Stivers. And I was -- but again its the wrong district, I support both of them.
So I expected a big apology. I thought it was going to be -- I wont mention the one because actually sometimes they treat me OK, but about four percent of the time.
But I said to a group, "Well, theyll be apologizing today." I said, "Did they apologize?" I didnt see the apology, but thats OK because let me tell you, right from the beginning, Troy Balderson, he is the guy, he is the guy thats going to do things. And youre going to be very surprised. You know, theyre talking about this blue wave.
I dont think so, I dont think so. Maxine Waters is leading the charge.  Maxine, shes a real beauty, Maxine. A seriously low I.Q. person, seriously.
Maxine Waters, shes leading the charge. You know, all throughout like hundreds of -- like 100 years, I guess, 125 years, whoever has the White House, that party tends to lose the midterms. I dont know why. Maybe its complacency, maybe you all fight so hard for the presidency and, you know, you win and youre a little complacent, but I mean that was two years ago. So I just said why.
But we have the greatest economy in the history of our country. We have things that have never happened before. And look, if the Democrats get in, theyre going to raise your taxes, youre going to have crime all over the place, youre going to have people pouring across the border. So why would that be a blue wave? I think it could be a red wave. I tell you what -- really, I think it should be a red wave.
But you got to get out and do it, you got to get out and vote. You got to get out because they want to take away what weve given. They want to take away -- did you ever see this? I mean, you see Pelosi who, by the way, again controls Danny OConnor, whoever the hell that is, but, you know ...  Danny OConnor.
And Danny OConnor, on his resume, put stuff that wasnt true, OK? So he did that. You know, he would have thought he was Perry Mason or something. He was like a low-level person that did nothing. Danny OConnor, thats a beauty. Hes another beauty.
This is what were fighting. They will take away your taxes. They will destroy so many things that weve given. And you know, by the way, we had Obamacare repealed and replaced except for one man who showed up at two oclock and he voted no, he went no.
But what weve done on health care is incredible. Weve kept your numbers way down, way below what they thought. Weve taken away the individual mandate, which is the single worst part of Obamacare.
Weve taken it away. And you know, I mean, look, hey this has been -- this has been some successful period for our country. Our country has never ever been like this. Levels of enthusiasm, the likes of which nobodys ever seen, theyve never seen it in the polls not for me, in the polls.
So, so we have a man thats going to fight for you. Hes going to fight for Ohio and hes going to be here for a long time. He will never ever disappoint you. I found that out from the people -- you know, hes just not going to disappoint you. Hes really smart and hes a really hard worker. Troy Balderson, come on up.
Thank you, thank you everyone. Its a great honor to be here. But before we get started, how about we wish the United States Coast Guard a happy 228th birthday. And to all the men and women who serve and have served, lets give them a roaring sound of applause.
Thank you. For a guy from Muskingum County, an area I call the Shaker Heights of Appalachia, it is truly a humble experience to be on stage with President Trump.
Mr. President, welcome back to Ohio, and were thankful to have you here. And thank you to everyone here today. I am humbled by your support. Its been overwhelming.
In 2016, Ohio was the battleground for the presidential election. Your countless volunteer hours, your enthusiasm and most importantly, your vote helped put Donald J. Trump in the White House.
On August 7th, we need to do that again. Im counting on all of you again. I need your volunteer hours, your enthusiasm and most importantly, I need your vote August 7th so I can go to Congress  And represent you and fight alongside this good man, this great man, President Trump, to make America great again.
In just a short period of time since his election, President Trump has lowered taxes, brought unemployment to an all-time low, and the stock market is roaring. Im going to fight alongside him to continue this economic success, I promise. To the seniors out there, including my mom and dad, and theyre here today
And the seniors across America, President Trump will protect your Social Security and Medicare, and Ill fight alongside him to make sure the benefits you were promised are there for you.
Mr. President, we dont want to go back. Im not tired of winning. My opponent has a different idea though, dishonest Danny OConnor wants to repeal those middle-class tax cuts.  Dishonest Danny OConnor wants to take away your guns.  Dishonest Danny supports open borders and sanctuary cities.
Dishonest Danny OConnor will fight against the policies that are turning our country around.  And worst of all, dishonest Danny OConnor will vote for Nancy Pelosi for Speaker.
If you want someone who will fight for President Trump economic agenda that is putting America back to work, then I need your help, and I need your vote on Tuesday. I will win this election on August 7th and go to Congress to fight for Ohio and for the great people of the 12th District. Thank you all very much. Thank you. God bless America. Thank you, Donald Trump.
Thank you. He means it, he means it, he means it. Thank you, Troy. Thank you, Troy. A vote for Troys opponent is a vote for open borders, which equals massive crime, like they dont care about it. They dont care about the crime. They dont care about your military and they dont care about your vets.
The new platform of the Democrat Party is to abolish ICE and lets not worry about crime. Oh, really? It doesnt work that way.  You know, when MS-13 sees the ICE people, when they come in MS-13 says, "We got problems, we got problem." ICE is fantastic for this country. Theyre brave. They got a tough job.
And were getting these gangs like MS-13 and others, we get them the hell out of the country one by one getting them out. A vote for Danny Boy and the Democrats is a vote to let criminals and drugs pour into our country and to let MS-13 run wild in our communities. And you know what they do once theyre there? Were going to protect our law enforcement, not just ICE, all of our law enforcement.
Republicans want a maximum, and we do. We want maximum border security and respect for ICE, respect for Border Patrol, respect for all of our great law -- right, right, law enforcement offices.
All of them, law enforcement offices. Weve seen the horrors that happened when our laws are not enforced. For example, in the sanctuary state of California, Air Force veteran Marilyn Farris was viciously raped, murdered, and beaten to death with a hammer by an illegal alien with a long criminal history who should have never been in our country, including an arrest just a week before he killed Marilyn.
This was somebody that should have never been allowed to be in our country. And were talking about thousands of people. Were talking about thousands and thousands of people.
You can ask Jim Jordan. Thats all we work on. Thats what we focus on, and were finally getting there. Were finally -- well get there, well get there. We want our country to be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens.
Every day, the heroes of ICE are tracking down the violent criminals, drug dealers, child predators, which is a tremendous problem, and the vicious gang members all over the place and were throwing them in jail or throwing them the hell out of our country, one or the other. And we just announced yesterday a record of enforcement at the border.
Not easy, its not easy because our laws are so bad, theyre so pathetic, catch and release. Visa lottery, lottery, lets pick somebody out. Oh, darling, I wonder who that might be. Oh, here he is.
Oh, oh, hes convicted of five murders. Oh, I see. Well, let him run through our country. We are -- what were doing is crazy. And how about chain migration? How about that?
Somebody comes in, he brings his mother, and his father, and his aunt and uncle, 15 times removed. He brings them all. I said the other day, the young man, we call him that or the young animal, I guess is better -- who -- who mowed down eight people, killed many people horribly. Did you ever notice they never talk about the people that lose arms and legs? They never talked about that. They talk about eight people died, but they dont say eight people died and many people lost their arms and their legs and theyll never be the same. They worked so hard. Theyre so incredible.
But this guy had 22 people come in with him -- 22 people. And hes in our justice system now. Hes been there for about a year. Itll take forever. We better get smart, we better get tough and smart. Take forever court after court after court, and then they end up making deals.
If you want to have a border, if you want to stop the radical Pelosi and Waters -- Maxine Waters agenda, theres only one choice in this election, thats vote for Troy Balderson. Hes going to help Mark Meadows. Hes going to help Vince, hes going to help Jim. Hes going to help everybody. Theyre going to get the job done.
I mean, the fact is we need more Republicans. People say we have a majority. We dont really have the majority of the Senate. Fifty-one, we have one person not voting, you know, not around to vote. I dont know hes not -- hes not voting, so we have 50.
You know to get -- Ill give you an example how tough it is. To get our great future Justice Kavanaugh, I think hes going to get there, too. I feel strongly about it. But to get him approved think of this, because we have one vote that wont be able to vote, unfortunately, to get Justice Kavanaugh approved, we need 100 percent of the Republican votes. Think of that. How bad is that?
How do you get a 100 percent of anything? You know, you always have somebody. I dont like Trump, I dont like our president. He destroyed my career. I only destroyed a career because they said bad things about me and you fight back and they go down the tubes and thats OK. A couple of them, a couple of them. Its all right. I never mentioned names, I dont mention names. Ive become much more diplomatic.
See, in the old days, a year ago, two years ago, I would have mentioned names. I dont do that anymore. I dont do it anymore. But think of it, we need a 100 percent, and then the Vice President -- Mike Pence is a great guy -- has to vote ... And has to go and raise his hand, and we -- we win.
But, you know, youre not going to have that vote most likely from your senator, but its one of those things were going to get them in. Top at Yale, top at Yale Law School. Same thing with Justice Gorsuch, top at Harvard, number one in his class, Harvard Law School. Went to Oxford, top student. I mean, this is what we want. We want great people. We want really top-of-the-line smart people. I want people with the highest test scores. I like high test scores. Does that make sense?
I want them. I want people, so do you. So we have somebody great in Brett Kavanaugh, and I think its working out very well. But we need 100 percent of the vote.
Now we have a couple of places where I won by 30 and 40 points, and it could very well be that they come and vote for our senators, Democrats, could very well be. Well see what happens. But on the assumption that they dont, because they do talk, a few of them say nicer things than -- about me than any Republican. A couple of them compare me to some of the greats. I talk about Abe Lincoln, Honest Abe. No.
No, they say great things. And I tell the people, I tell the people, I say its wonderful that they say nice things, but theyre never going to give us the vote, theyll never. We need the vote. Say bad things about me, but give the vote.
And Im not just talking vote on justices, Im talking votes on lots of other things, including highways, and infrastructure, and the wall and border security.
I need their vote, and were never going to get their vote. The only way well get their vote, we need more Republicans, OK? We got to get more Republicans or its going to see -- you will see this country go down so fast. You know, what weve done is they even say it really has been, as you say, amazing. Its been a miracle to a lot of people, its been a miracle because I campaigned.
And I purposely didnt mention the kind of numbers that were achieving because I didnt want to be accused of exaggeration, right, by the fake news media.
If I would have said 4.1 percent GDP, they would have -- it would have been major headlines like -- and by the way, its going a lot higher. You can mark my words whats going on.
You know, if I get the trade deficits down they never tell you this, if I get the trade deficits down, bring them down. If I bring the trade deficits down, we could pick up three and four points in GDP. Nobody says that, nobody says that.
They think we cant go any higher. We can go much higher. We have to have good trade deals. Were doing this despite horrible trade deals, the worst deals ever made in the history of our country, ever made in the history of the world. Nobody ever made deals where we give away our country to other countries. Its sheer stupidity. And now these countries, because of tariffs, and I say thats OK.
You know, President Obama, it wasnt his thing. It wasnt his thing.  Frankly, it wasnt anybodys thing for the last 30 years, it wasnt anybodys thing. Its my thing. I love it, I love it.
But we had one set of countries. European Union, look, theyre excellent. They want to make a deal. Theyre dying to make a deal. They want to make a deal. But for years, you know, they tell President Obama, "No, no, we have no interest in meeting. We have no interest in meeting." And I guess they said, oh, thats OK, but they said that to me, too.
Sir, we really dont want to meet. Were happy with the deal. They should be happy. They made $151 billion dollars last year, they should be very happy. I said, "I agree, you shouldnt meet. I agree you shouldnt change the deal, but youre going to have to." They said, "Well, we really dont want to meet." I said, "OK, thats OK, dont meet. But as your cars come into the United States -- Mercedes, BMW, many others -- were going to tax them 20 percent and were going to do a lot better."
And then they said, like about 12 minutes after it was announced, "You have a call." Im not going to embarrass peoples names because I like Jean-Claude, OK?  So I wont mention his name. But he did call and he said, "Wed like to meet."
And we have the makings of a deal, but without that there was no chance. And then I have senators coming, and others and congressmen. I dont think Ill ever hear from Troy on this. I dont think Ill ever hear. But they go -- please dont tax the stuff coming into our country.
What theyre doing to our country is incredible. We had an $817 billion dollar trade deficit among all countries over the last number of years. Think of it, per year, per year, $817 billion. Thats a year. Do you think theyre good trade deals? Oh, wonderful deal, whoever negotiated those deals. And its going down.
You know, a number that they dont want to talk about, but the number 4.1 was great, but were going to go a lot higher than that, 4.1 was great. Once the trade deals -- you know if I didnt do anything with the trade deals, if I said nothing, you know, let everybody continue to take our jobs, take our wealth, let them continue, you know, Ill bet our stock market is up almost 40 percent since I won.
But if I didnt do anything with trade just kept quiet, let them continue to take advantage of us, nobody says anything. I think you would have been up another 40, 50, 60 percent.
But eventually you would have had to pay the piper eventually, and were not going to do that, were going to do something, were going to make our country so much richer than its ever been.
And I dont like it when congressmen and senators come up to me -- because Im a free trader and Im a fair trader, fair being more important, and Im a reciprocal trader. You know what reciprocal is? If they do it, we do it, right? Whats wrong with that? But I dont like it.
When a senator, who I like, and there are a number of them or when a congressperson who I like comes into the White House Oval Office, they want to see me, "Sir, wed really like you to stop treating these countries so bad." I said, "We have a tremendous massive deficit. Were losing a lot of money." "It doesnt matter, Sir. We believe in free trade." I said, "OK, let me ask you a question. Theyre charging us a 50 percent tariff. Were charging them a 20 percent tariff. Do you think thats OK?" "No, Sir, its really not. We want free trade." I said, "Whats free when they charge us so we cant charge them." What is going on here? Whats going on here? Its unbelievable, you know, its unbelievable.
When we make a car and we send it to China, they charge us a 25 percent tax. When they make a car and send it to us, we charge them essentially nothing. Its 2.5 percent, but basically they dont pay it. So they pay -- think of it, they pay 2.5 percent, meaning nothing. We pay 25 percent. And on top of it they dont want our cars, OK? Thats even worse.
So what they do is they say, "No, no, we dont want your cars," but they tell General Motors, "Build the plants in China." I dont blame them. Look, I dont blame China, I dont blame any of these countries. I dont have to go through them. Ive got some good relationships. Believe it or not, they all like me. They understand. They cant believe themselves they got away with it.
They cant believe they -- that they got away with, but they have and were turning it around, were turning it around fast, you know, sadly because I dont like this. But the Chinese market is down 27 percent in the last three or four months, 27. I dont like that because I really like President Xi and I respect China greatly. Its incredible what theyve done.
But theyve done it off our back. Theyve taken $500 billion a year for many years -- $500 billion. We have really rebuilt China and we rebuilt, and its time that we rebuild our own country now, OK?
And Troy Balderson is going to help me do that, right, Troy? Troy, yes. OK, he said yes. If he said no, Im out of here, OK?  Hes going to help us. Hes going to -- believe me hell be there. Hell be in the forefront.
Weve now created 3.9 million jobs -- think of that -- since the election. I would have never said it because of the fakers back there. I would have never said it.
I would have never -- can you imagine if I said that with the fake news? Lets say were campaigning. Nobody ever heard me say were going to -- almost four million jobs -- four million. And by the way, you have car plants moving into Michigan, moving in  Moving into Ohio, moving into Pennsylvania, massive, massive companies. Moving into South Carolina, moving into North Carolina, theyre all coming back and that means jobs.
And you know what? When I charge them, when I say, look, 20 percent, Ill keep it down to a minimum 20 percent because Im a nice person. It totally wipes out the deficit. We go positive, we make a lot of money. And you know what theyre going to do, theyre not going to pay the 20 percent, they wont pay it too much. In fact, the higher I make it the better it is. You know why? Theyre going to come to Ohio and build a plant because that way they pay nothing, right? They pay nothing.
Theyre going to build their plants in this country. I went to the Wharton School of Finance, I was a very fine student. And I will tell you, one of the great schools in the world, the Wharton School of Finance, one of the hardest schools in the world to get into. I got in -- let me tell you, I went there.
This is basic, so basic. We charge them a lot, we put in a 20 or 25 percent tax. We take the 151 and now we make 100, so we flipped it like $250 billion with one signature. But whats going to happen? Theyre coming into the United States to build their plants. Dont even think about it, OK  Because theyre not going to pay that tax. Too much.
More Americans are now employed. Heres one of the greatest -- here is one of the best statistics ever. More Americans are now employed than ever recorded before in our nations history.
Think of that. So we have more people employed working today than the United States has ever had employed or working, think of that. Is that incredible? Thats like this little statement that they put out. Nobody -- they dont want you to hear this stuff. This is the great thing, so these rallies are very successful. They hate when I do them although they do like the ratings, I must say.
You know theyre torn, theyre torn. Do we put them on and get great ratings and let him say that like CNN is a fake or ... Or do we not put him on? Theyre very torn.
Its oftentimes Im getting ready to do my -- you know, the fake news with CNN and MSN -- MSNBC is so corrupt. Its so disgusting...  So disgusting. I would say almost theyre worse, theyre almost worse, theyre really a fake news group of people.
And heres the good news, the guys that we love, right, theyre blowing them away in their ratings. Sean Hannity, Laura Ingraham, Tucker Carlson, Steve Doocy, Ainsley, Brian, so many others, theyre blowing up away in their ratings. Oh, excuse me, I almost forgot, I would have been in big trouble, the great Lou Dobbs, right? I ordered it. But you see -- oh, Maria Bartiromo.
Great. Im in trouble because I -- I know I left out probably 10, but I didnt -- I didnt really think Id be doing this, but theyre blowing up away. CNN is down at the bottom of the totem pole. MSNBC isnt even close to being next to these shows. So were blowing them away and thats good because those are the people that love us. Thats why were going to win. I mean, were going to win here. Its why -- its why I won my election, remember?
Now, three or four polls got it right, but for the most part, you know, its suppression. They want to convince you that Trump has no chance so you dont bother voting. You go to a movie then you come home. But the problem is you never went to the movie, you went out and voted.
Beautiful, right? Right, right? You went out and voted. Darling, lets go to a movie because CNN, fake news, said Trump will not win because there is no path to 270. There is a path to 306 but not the 270.
No, I was saying the other night, remember? Pennsylvania, I was ahead by a lot. We only had two points left. It was like 9:30, it was early. And they refused to say that I won Pennsylvania. If I lost every single remaining vote, it was impossible to catch me.
I kept saying, "Well, wait a minute, theres only so many votes left and we would have to do three times that number. Why arent they saying?" So then what happened is Wisconsin came in, and we won the state of Wisconsin, and we won the state of Michigan. And then they finally announced Pennsylvania. You know why? They couldnt stand it because theyre so dishonest. These are -- these are among the most dishonest human beings you will ever meet.
In the month of July alone, we added nearly 40,000 new manufacturing jobs. Weve created nearly a half a million manufacturing jobs since I took office. And you remember what they used to say? Oh, there are no manufacturing jobs, they dont exist anymore. Theyre no good. Really? How do you make things without manufacturing jobs? I guess, they figure youll buy it from the competitors, right? Youll buy it. Well go out and buy it.
No, were doing manufacturing jobs at numbers that people havent seen before. Half a million almost, in fact, probably, by the time I leave this room, itll be over half a million.
Our economy is soaring, and were creating opportunity for everyone. The unemployment rate for Americans without a high school diploma -- this just came out two days ago, and I figure I might as well tell you because they wont say it. Without a diploma, high school is at the lowest level ever recorded, right. How good is that?
Economic growth last quarter hit 4.1, you all know that. You all know this, too. Remember, I used to say because they always voted Democrat, it was like automatic. The African-American unemployment rate has achieved the lowest level ever recorded in history.
Ive never heard them say that. Have you ever heard them say that? I say it. Thats the advantage of having something where a lot of people are listening. Oh, do they listen to those .
And then what they do, do you ever notice on Monday morning or Sunday morning theyll take a beautiful long flowing statement and theyll cut it out just a few words in the middle. And I say, "Man, they really changed the meaning of what I was saying." These are really bad people. The Hispanic unemployment rate is at the lowest level in history.
The Asian unemployment rate has also achieved the lowest level ever recorded. The womens unemployment rate -- I am so sorry, Women, Ive let you down. Ive let the women down even though I won the women, I won the women, oh.
You know, when those numbers came how is it possible because I never heard I was going to win the women. I said, "I think the women like me." My wife, the First Lady, Melania said, "The women really like you."
They do like me, and I like them. But I said, "How did we win the women?" We won the women. I was a little -- that was a little surprise to a lot of people, but now that youve been to the rally, look at all those pink posters.
Well, thank you. So, the womens unemployment rate is not the lowest ever recorded, its only the lowest level in 65 years. Im sorry.
Im sorry 65 years. But we think by the next report we should have the lowest in history. The veterans, do I love the veterans, unemployment rate  Reached lowest level in nearly 20 years, almost 3.9 million Americans have been lifted off food stamps and thats since the election.
That means theyre getting out, theyre working, theyre loving their life, theyre getting jobs that pay them much more than what they can make any other way. Thats some number. Thats a big number -- all for food stamps. And our new workforce initiative will deliver job training to more than four million Americans, and its growing. And even though its 110 degrees in this crazy room ... If you can take it, I can take it.
In all fairness to the HVAC engineers and contractors, this room was not designed quite for this crowd. And you people are hot. So, if anybody wants to leave, leave, theres a lot of people out that want to get in, but dont leave. Now it is -- it is rather hot. Heres the good news. You walk out, you lose about ten pounds and you say, "That was really very good. That was...
That beats going to a gym, right? And its hot. So much for my brand-new beautiful suit. Now that we have the best economy in the history of our country, this is the time to straighten out the worst trade deals ever made by any country on earth at any time. Ohio alone lost over 200,000 manufacturing jobs since China joined the WTO. The WTO World Trade Organization a total disaster.
For decades our politicians allowed other countries to steal our jobs, plunder our wealth and loot our economy. Thats what they did. I dont think for the most part they did it consciously, they just didnt know what the hell they were doing. They had no idea. And then you have the globalists who think that is wonderful when they close up a plant in Ohio, move the plant to Mexico or some other place, lose all of your jobs. They make the product in Mexico or some other country, send it back into our country tax-free -- those days are ending -- tax-free. Right? No good, no. We dont like that. We want our people.
Did you see a certain gentleman the other day said, "Donald Trump doesnt take care of foreign workers." I said, "Hes right."  That was Charles Koch, Charles Koch whos actually a nice guy. Theyre members of my clubs, David and Charles Koch. But he said, "Donald Trump doesnt take care of foreign workers." I said, "Hey, hes right." I mean, . I dont want to get into an argument, hes right. I want to take care of the American workers. I want to be America first, OK?
But Americas economic surrender ended the day that I took office, folks. Now after years of rebuilding foreign countries, we are finally rebuilding our country.
The great patriot from Ohio -- and he was indeed and he was actually a great president, certainly from an economic standpoint. He was a great president. He was assassinated. People dont realize William McKinley from Ohio was a great president.
He understood the crucial importance of tariffs in maintaining a very strong country. And people that followed him went down as great presidents because one, in particular, as you know, because he was given an economic behemoth that was created by McKinley. McKinley said, "We ought to take care of our own nation and her industries first. We have to take care of our nation first."
And we can help other people, we want to help other people. But we dont want to help other people that are rich and not have them reimburse us. Its so foolish. Were taking care of their military. Were taking care of their -- were taking care of everything.
You know, a lot of these deals were made many years ago when they were weak and struggling, and then we never changed them. We never changed them. Theyre still the same old deal. But were changing them now ... Changing them now. And Troy Balderson is going to be helping so much.
Thanks to our pro-American economic policies, Americans Steel -- one of the things Im most proud of -- American Steel is making one of the biggest comebacks that anybody has ever seen for any industry.
Nucor, big great steel company, you know, the steel mills were all closing, theyre all closing up. Nucor has announced an $85 million dollar upgrade in Marion. Charter Steel announced a new $150 million dollar steel mill in Cuyahoga Heights.
JSW Steel is restarting the furnace and investing $500 million dollars in Mingo Junction, and Cleveland-Cliffs announced a new $700 million plant in Toledo.
United States Steel is building or renovating or improving over seven new plants. They never thought theyd see a day when this happened. And this all happened within a very short period of time because weve stopped the dumping. If they want to dump, you know what, thats fine, but they have to pay a 25 percent tax. Its amazing what impact that has on people that want to rip off and destroy our industries.
Thank you very much, I appreciate that. Weve also taken historic action to protect our amazing farmers. I reached a historic agreement with the European Union. We talked about them before to reduce barriers to American-grown products and vastly increase the purchases of Ohios number one crop, American soybeans. And by the way, do you see the prices? Theyre starting to go up.
Soybeans prices are starting to go up. And were standing up to China -- well get along with China, but were standing up because its just been unfair. Weve authorized up to $12 billion to help American farmers during this period of time where China is targeting the American farmer because China is smart and they know the American farmers love Donald Trump. And they say, "What can we do to stop Donald Trump because finally, hes the guy. He got it right. Hes bringing the wealth back to the United States." And China doesnt like it, so theyre spending a fortune on public relations and ads.
Do you ever see these ads? Look at whos paying from, and other countries and by the way, other countries. And speaking of John, its just come out that the Democratic leader and the leader of the Russian investigation ...  Dianne Feinstein had a Chinese spy as her driver for 20 years, and shes leading the Russian investigation if thats what you call it. How about leading -- no, no, shes leading the Russian witch-hunt, a Democrat-inspired witch-hunt. Thats something. Isnt that something?
Dianne Feinstein had a Chinese spy. How come China never spies on us? Can I tell you what? There are those that say, "Boy, theyre brutal. You should ask the people. Ask whats going on." And not only China, its a lot of people and we got to stop it. We got to stop meddling. We got to stop everybody from attacking us, but there are a lot.
Russia is there. China is there. Hey, were doing well with North Korea, but theyre probably there. We got to stop everybody. We got to stop. But think of that, and I like Dianne Feinstein. I have to tell you, but I dont like the fact that she had a Chinese spy driving her, and she didnt know it. And then she says to me, "Well, what did you know about this?" And I mean, give me a break. Come on, folks.
Every day -- and by the way, with China not doing so well, its only gotten worse. I guarantee you. If theres any meddling or if theres any problems, I guarantee its going to happen really big now because we are taking our wealth back, were taking our jobs back, were opening up markets.
Every day were setting new records and were keeping our promise. We have eliminated a record number of job-killing regulation. We have -- and that is so true. And Ohio is going to like this. We have ended the war on clean coal. Our miners are back to work, clean coal.
Republicans passed the biggest tax cuts in reform in American history. Weve saved our family farms from the estate tax, also known as the death tax. And also weve saved small businesses, small farms. Small businesses wont be paying the death tax anymore.
As I said, weve repealed the core of Obamacare. The individual mandate is now gone. Thats where you pay a tremendous amount of money for the privilege of not having to pay to buy terrible, horrible health care thats way overpriced. We have given you a lot of health care plans that you can choose from through associating health plans. Were giving businesses the greatest ability that theyve ever had to join forces to buy much better health insurance for much less money including across state lines.
And weve just added and introduced a brand new rule to offer renewable plans that could save patients 50 percent or more compared to Obamacare -- Obamacare. That was a beauty, Obamacare. It was repealed and replaced, remember, other than one vote.
And you know what else we did, which is I think really great, its really something. When youre really sick, its called right to try. How many times you know somebody  And youre reading about this potential cure but itll be 10 more years of experiments in food and drug, and we have right to try now. People sign a disclaimer, they sign an agreement for no liability.
And instead of traveling, if they have the money, most people dont have the money, but I know people theyve traveled all over the world to try and solve a health problem. Right to try, its passed. It was really tough. You wouldnt think it will be tough.
But the health care companies had a problem, the pharmaceutical companies had a problem. Our country, because everybody is worried everybody would be sued, I said, "Youll sign an agreement where nobody, you know, you do it. You dont sue people. You -- they want to get better, they want to have a right to try." We approve that, and thats a big thing. It was a very hard thing. Theyve been trying to get it for 40 years.
I signed it into law three months ago -- right to try. So if they have something that you read about that looks really promising, you dont have to wait 12 years. You know one of the reasons you couldnt use it because they said, "Well, we dont want to use it because maybe its going to hurt somebody." Well, the people are going to die. They want to try it. It might not work and it might work.
Its also a great test medically, its a great test. So right to try, we have it. Im so proud of that one. To restore our security we increased defense spending to $700 billion this year and $716 billion next year. Were doing things that weve never done before. And we also had approved $6 billion for opioid. Were fighting opioid. Its down 20 percent. Its a tough fight.
$6 billion we got approved. Thanks to our 2$ billion investment in new armored vehicle, workers at the legendary tank plant in Lima, Ohio, are now back on the job, churning out M1 Abrams tanks. Do you like that, Abrams tanks?
Theyre churning them out. You know the great thing about what were doing with $700 billion and $716 billion, we also -- its far less important in this case because theres nothing we have to protect. Theres nothing so important as our military. But were also providing massive numbers of jobs because we build all of that equipment in the United States.
Thats the one case where the jobs just arent as important, right? But were doing good all here. And Im very proud to report that we have given our servicemembers their largest pay raise in over a decade.
And Ive also directed the Pentagon to begin the process of creating the sixth branch of the United States Armed Forces called the Space Force -- Space, very important.
Thats going to be great. Look, so much is happening now in space. I mean, you have great defense. Im not just talking about Mars and the Moon, Im talking about tremendous defense capability, offensive capability. Its in space, so were going to do the Space Force.
We passed the landmark V.A. accountability law that everybody said you couldnt get passed. Forty years theyve been trying to do it. Now if a bad government worker abuses a great veteran, we turn to them and we say, "Youre fired. Get the hell out of here."
Youre fired. We also passed Veterans Choice, so if our veterans cant get care from the V.A. in a timely manner they have the right to go and see immediately a private doctor get taken care of.
Theyve been working on that one for 45 years, we got it passed. Im good at getting things passed. My whole life -- oh, and were going to get the wall passed. Dont worry about that, dont worry about that.
The obstructionist -- the Democrats are obstructionist. The only thing they do well, theyre lousy politicians, they have horrible stupid policies. You know, lets get rid of law enforcement, lets get rid of our military, lets not take care of our vets -- all of these things, lets not build a wall. They are haters. They have tremendous hatred, they have tremendous hatred, but theyll do anything they can to -- really to obstruct or resist.
You know, their word is resist -- resist. I used to see that word. I said, "Why are they doing that?" If its good for the country, why are they resisting? But they want to resist.
I withdrew the United States from the horrible Iran nuclear deal, and so many things have happened since then. I also recognized the capital of Israel, and five months later we opened the American Embassy into it.
Instead of apologizing for America, we are standing up for America. We are standing up for the heroes who protect our country. And we are proudly standing up for our national anthem. Thank you.  But to continue our incredible success, we must elect more Republicans and we must elect Troy Balderson. We have to elect Troy.
So get your friends, get your neighbors, get your family and get out and vote for Troy on Tuesday. Loyal citizens, great people like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back this country. We are returning power to where it belongs -- to the American people.
From Columbus to the Queen City, Cincinnati, where I worked for long time, I love Swifton Village -- Swifton Village, a good place, the Queen City. From Dublin to Cleveland, and from Toledo to Mansfield, Ohio has always been the home of red-blooded American patriots, strong people, smart people, real workers, people that I love.
This state is the home of the proud and we are -- were the home of the proud. Were the home of families and farmers, and miners, and manufacturers, and aviators, and astronauts. Ohio is the home of everything -- everything good.
Ohio is where the Wright Brothers invented the airplane and where Annie Oakley got her gun. And Ohio is the state that gives us American legends and American heroes like Thomas Edison, Neil Armstrong and John Glenn.
We stand on the shoulders of generations of American patriots who knew how to work, knew how to fight and knew how to win. You know how to win. Just like them were going to keep on working, were going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning. Were going to win so much youre going to get so tired of winning, just so tired.
You see whats happening. No, well keep it going for a long time. We will never give up, we will never give in, and we will never back down. We will never ever stop fighting for our families, our freedom or our great American flag, right?
