Donald Trump|Remarks: Full Leaked Recording|Donald Trump Addresses Staff of UN Mission in New York
Kelly, youre going to be a star and the only way youre a star, no matter how you look or feel and talk is when you make good deals. OK. I found that out  You got to make good deals, otherwise its over. And shes going to make good deals. I was with her now for three days and shes developed incredible relationships in a very short period of time and we appreciate it and youll be out there, youll be in the firing line today for instance.
I just heard it. Well, you know, while Im coming up here. You know that whistle blower, I was --  turns out to be a fake. Hes a fake highly partisan whistleblower. The lawyers contribute to buying -- they contribute -- The whole thing is -- But more important, you know the whistleblower was?
The same letter that we announced yesterday, which was perfect, It was -- I couldnt have written it better if I wrote it myself. I could not have said or had a better conversation. And we had a really nice gentleman in the president of Ukraine yesterday. And he was -- he was great. They said, "Was he pressuring you?" You know, these animals in the press.
Theyre animals actually. Some of the worst human beings youll ever meet.  Fake news, fake news. Theyre scum, many of them are scum. You have some good reporters but not many, Ill be honest with you. But -- And thats one of the things we battle. Youll find out, but theyll probably like you better than they like me, but I had to get us here, right?
But theyre total -- just terrible dishonest people and they were -- they couldnt figure out what do we say bad about this conversation. Then it turns out that they had senators, Democrat senators went over there and strong-armed the guy. "You better damn well do this or youre not going to get any money from Congress." Oh, I see, thats OK? And then you have Sleepy Joe Biden, whos dumb as a rock.
This guy was dumb on his best day, and hes not having his best day right now. Hes dumb as a rock. So you have Sleepy Joe, and he goes up, and his kid, whos got a lot of problems, he got thrown out of the Navy. Full of problems. I mean, look, Im not going to -- its a problem, thats a problem, so we wont get into why and all that.
But he got thrown out of the Navy, and now this kid goes into Ukraine, walks away with millions of dollars, and he becomes a consultant for 50,000 a month. And he doesnt know anything compared to anybody in this room. OK. Hes a stiff, he knows nothing. Hes walking away with 50,000, or as you would say in the old days 50K a month.
Not bad. Would anybody else in this room like to represent Ukraine for 50,000 a month --  Thats on top -- you got the job -- thats on top of hundreds of thousands and millions of dollars. But thats not the best one. The best one was China. This came up. So now he goes to China, and I was with the head of Blackstone which is the big deal, Steve Schwarzman.
I said, "Steve, is that possible?" "No, why? Why? Who got that? Who did that?" I said. "Bidens son." "Who?" Well then you know he says, "Maybe I shouldnt get involved, you know its very political." But I say -- I say "Steve, what happens when you come off a vice presidential plane, its called Air Force Two, your fathers with you, you walk into a room in China and they give you a fund of $1.5 billion, billion, you make hundreds of thousands of dollars and millions of dollars off that."
And thats probably not all they gave him. They gave him plenty more, Im sure. We might never find out. And then they talk about me, and I didnt do anything. I dont know if Im the most innocent person in the world.  But you know you look at that, most presidential, I just said Im the most presidential except for possibly Abe Lincoln when he wore the hat, that was tough to beat.
Honest Abe, when he wore that hat, that was tough to beat. But I cant do that, that hat wouldnt work for me. Yeah, I have better hair than him. But Honest Abe was tough to beat. Remember we used to do that during the campaign. They used to say, when I speak, the crowd would be crazy, Id go crazy, we would all go crazy.
We had a lot of fun together, right? We had 25,000 -- We have -- weve never had an empty seat. From the day I came down the escalator, with a potential, unbelievable woman who became a first lady.   The crowds loved her, the people love her. But weve never had an empty seat, not one.
I remem -- Yeah, I wouldnt believe that. There was one case where we had a tremendous snowstorm, and it was just about frozen.  It was like a monster storm, I dont even know how I got there. I said, "Hows the crowd?" "Its just not full, sir." I said what does that mean. Theres like two seats on top.
Thousands and thousands of people couldnt get there. So they show pictures of the empty seats. They dont say theres a -- theres a -- the worst storm theyve had in years. They show pictures of like nine empty seats. They could have been people just went to the bathroom together, right?  But I never -- I always say just get the biggest arena.
Good location if you can, but get the biggest arena. We did it the other night, Tuesday night. We had two congressmen, one who was possibly going to win, he was up by two, he won by about 27, I think, or something like that. A lot. The other one was down by 17. And they said, "Sir, dont campaign for him please." "Why?" "Because if he loses, theyre going to kill you, the press." I said theyre going to kill me whether I campaign or not.
Itll make it a little bit worse. Theyll say he worked and he failed. Trump failed. The guy was down 17 points and he ended up winning by a lot. In fact, the whole night, CNN would built the most beautiful $2 million -- maybe they spent the  arrested. No ratings and theyre building studios all over the place.
But they had a studio -- The studio was going to stay up for weeks, and toward the end of the night, they were taking it down. Their so-called stars were leaving. They had stars. Theyre not going to stars, OK. They have less than seven -- But they were taking the stars were leaving and they werent that important.
But the candidate, Dan Bishop, won by a lot. He was down by 17, and they had lines a mile long. I mean, the lines going into those -- voting booths were unbelievable. And without the rally speech, and a couple of tweets and Twitter stuff is good. We have like way over 100 million people on six or seven different platforms.
Its actually much higher than that, higher than just about everybody. And it helps. It helps. They have signs oftentimes when I speak. It said, "Please keep -- " This woman the other night, beautiful woman, shes got a son, "Please keep tweeting sir, it matters." And it does matter, because we get our voice out.
If we dont do that, we dont get the voice out. I cant say what a great job Kelly is doing, and I cant say what a wonderful husband she had. Look at how devoted he is. Hes a rich man, too.  Hes loaded. What are you doing here? Why are you working? Hes so proud of his wife he cant leave his office.
Thats really great though, huh? Are you all proud of her? He said very much. And hes really a fantastic guy, hes been a friend of mine for a long time. Before I met Kelly, I met Joe. And Joe impressed me because of his knowledge of energy. Now he could be paid, OK. Youre going to pay a guy 50 -- now he went dead.
For him thats not -- not quite good enough, although he might. He might. Its easy money, Joe, you have to say, right? But he would be an expert on energy, he would be a real expert. He would be somebody you would pay a lot of money too, but not Joe Bidens son. So the whistleblower came out and said nothing.
Said a couple of people told me he had a conversation with Ukraine. Were at war. These people are sick. Theyre sick. And nobodys called them out like I do. I dont understand. People are afraid to call them out. Theyre afraid to say that the press is crooked. We have a crooked press. We have a dishonest media.
So now theyre devastated, but theyll always find something. Im sure therell be something theyll find in this report that will suit their lie. But basically, that person never saw the report, never saw the call, they never saw the call, heard something, and decided that he or she or whoever the hell it is, sort of like almost a spy.
I want to know whos the person that gave the whistleblower -- whos the person that gave the whistleblower the information, because thats close to a spy. You know what we used to do in the old days when we were smart? Right? With spies and treason, right? We used to handle them a little differently than we do now.
Now you have guys like little Adam Schiff defending you. Little Adam. He says "pencil neck." That name stuck. Hes got  and neck is about too big, because you cant buy shirts that small. He was never a coal miner, Joe, lets put it that way. I dont think he worked in the mines. Do you think?
I dont think so. These miners come out, we love our miners. They come out and have hands on -- Im going to shake -- "I love you, sir. I love you, sir." But we gave them back their jobs. They were dead. And you know, Hillary came here just before, West Virginia says, "No, we want the miners. We will go to retrain them." And  Can you imagine a miner with, you know, massive arms shoulders, they love what theyre doing, sitting in a line, you know the tiny widgets.
Theyre running a little tiny computer parts together. Theyre big, strong -- They dont want to be doing that. And I said to them,  got angry. And I said to him, "That was supposing. Is there any chance -- Supposing we take you out of that business and we do retrain you and youre going to take it out." Again, they almost threw up all of my assistants.
And its a funny thing, you know, to me I call it dangerous and rough stuff. But its become much safer. In Australia, now they have no black-lung disease. They really get all of the dust out of there. Theyve done a fantastic job. Well copy that to our system. We give -- we give credit where credit is due.
But its incredible. But you know theyre talking about retraining these guys. And by the way, I was thinking of that too and walking in and I look at these big rough guys they said no, they dont want to do that, and I said, "Would you want that? Would you want any retraining?" And the one  say, "Sir, my great grandfather was a miner, my grandfather, my father, and Im a miner, and we love our life.
We want to dig coal. Thats what we wanted to do, sir. We dont want anything else. We want to just dig coal." Its true. You couldnt -- If I said Im going to give you an apartment on Fifth Avenue. You come with me youre going to have a great time in New York. They would say no thank you, its just the way it is, you know.
Thats their life and thats what they want, their life. They dont want to -- They dont want to try any different and I understand that. Im the only fool that decided to do something. I had a great life and I said, "Lets run for president and  this country out." And weve been hit harder than anybody in history.
people, no rich guys ever  for politics, that I can tell you. If anybody did this, I dont think theyre going to run. But I love doing it. And I guess I love it because weve made so much progress and youre really a big part of that.
And you know our deputy permanent representative Ambassador Jonathan Cohn may be here. Jonathan. Wheres Jonathan, is he here?   Doing a good job, right? I hear, everybody saying what a good job hes doing. So Jonathan, thank you. Good luck. Do well. You got plenty to work on China.
We have plenty of, I call them, points of confliction, right? Points of confliction. But you dont realize how important you are and what you do, you make it all possible. And Ive always said about the United Nations. It has more potential than any institution that Ive ever deal with. It really does.
It hasnt lived up to its potential. Its starting to more -- I think one of the reasons is because I feel that way I will use the United Nations to our benefit as a country and because Im doing it, others are doing it and also getting together and doing things differently. And Nikki did a great job. And Kellys going to do a great job and its very important -- this position was so important.
So important. Its another thing that I think was underrated that the importance of your position, I think it was very underrated. But you have the right person in that position but the United Nations is going to finally live up to its potential. Its -- its really -- its really got something. And I like your secretary general.
Hes really working hard. Hes always on the ball. Hes always there if you need him. I really like him so I think he has, you know, I think he has the stuff, the right stuff as they say it, right? You know as they set it: Think up over a good movie. But I just came over this morning. I wanted to thank you.
I want to congratulate and I want to congratulate Jonathan Kelly and I didnt know Joe was going to be here. But Im happy to see you, Joe. And you folks are fantastic. And just keep it going. Weve got it really rocking, were looking good and were looking good for another four years and now weve got   I want to say that I have the same group of reporters.
I say were looking good for another four years and then everyone to another four, maybe   And they got  He goes, "You know hes going to win, dont you?" Its just some idiot that hes interviewing. Says, "You know hes going to win?" "No, no. I think wed -- " "You didnt know hes going to win.
And you know hes not living, dont you?"  And you guys know Im going to win. Hes not leaving. Hes not leaving after -- And I thought he was kidding. Its been . So did anybody ever seen the Time magazine where we have it, 2020, 2024, 2028, 2030, in other words, you know, we do that, I think drives them freaking crazy.
So I just want to thank you. Congratulations to Kelly and Johnson and everybody in this room, you make it work and its so important that its called world peace and we got to have it. Well have it. Well have it. We have a lot of good things going , tremendous things. Problems with India and Pakistan, big problems with North Korea, were doing all right, we have a pretty good relationship going.
