Donald Trump|The New York Times: Interview with Donald Trump on NATO and the World|July 22, 2016
And I think, by the way, David, I think they will be able to afford them.
We cant.
If we cannot be properly reimbursed for the tremendous cost of our military protecting other countries, and in many cases the countries Im talking about are extremely rich. Then if we cannot make a deal, which I believe we will be able to, and which I would prefer being able to, but if we cannot make a deal, I would like you to say, I would prefer being able to, some people, the one thing they took out of your last story, you know, some people, the fools and the haters, they said, "Oh, Trump doesnt want to protect you." I would prefer that we be able to continue, but if we are not going to be reasonably reimbursed for the tremendous cost of protecting these massive nations with tremendous wealth — you have the tape going on?
With massive wealth. Massive wealth. Were talking about countries that are doing very well. Then yes, I would be absolutely prepared to tell those countries, "Congratulations, you will be defending yourself."
I think its a mutual interest, but were being reimbursed like its only in our interest. I think its a mutual interest. …
How is it helping us? How has it helped us? We have massive trade deficits. I could see that, if instead of having a trade deficit worldwide of $800 billion, we had a trade positive of $100 billion, $200 billion, $800 billion. So how has it helped us?
Theres no guarantee that well have peace in Korea.
No, theres no guarantee. We have 28,000 soldiers on the line.
Sure, but that doesnt mean that there wouldnt be something going on right now. Maybe you would have had a unified Korea. Who knows what would have happened? In the meantime, what have we done? So weve kept peace, but in the meantime weve let North Korea get stronger and stronger and more nuclear and more nuclear, and you are really saying, "Well, how is that a good thing?" You understand? North Korea now is almost like a boiler. You say weve had peace, but that part of Korea, North Korea, is getting more and more crazy. And more and more nuclear. And they are testing missiles all the time.
And weve got our soldiers sitting there watching missiles go up. And you say to yourself, "Oh, thats interesting." Now were protecting Japan because Japan is a natural location for North Korea. So we are protecting them, and you say to yourself, "Well, what are we getting out of this?"
Weve had them there for a long time, and now theyre practically obsolete, in all fairness.
Im only saying this. Were spending money, and if youre talking about trade, were losing a tremendous amount of money, according to many stats, $800 billion a year on trade. So we are spending a fortune on military in order to lose $800 billion. That doesnt sound like its smart to me. Just so you understand though, totally on the record, this is not 40 years ago. We are not the same country and the world is not the same world. Our country owes right now $19 trillion, going to $21 trillion very quickly because of the omnibus budget that was passed, which is incredible. We dont have the luxury of doing what we used to do; we dont have the luxury, and it is a luxury. We need other people to reimburse us much more substantially than they are giving right now because we are only paying for a fraction of the cost.
Or, if we cannot make the right deal, to take on the burden themselves. You said it wrong because you said or — or if we cannot make the right deal for proper reimbursement to take on the burden themselves. Yes. Now, Hillary Clinton said: "I will never leave Japan. I will never leave Japan. Will never leave any of our ——" Well now, once you say that, guess what happens? What happens?
You cant negotiate.
In a deal, you always have to be prepared to walk. Hillary Clinton has said, "We will never, ever walk." Thats a wonderful phrase, but unfortunately, if I were on Saudi Arabias side, Germany, Japan, South Korea and others, I would say, "Oh, theyre never leaving, so what do we have to pay them for?" Does that make sense to you, David?
By the way, and I know what Im talking about is massive. If we ever felt there was a reason to defend the United States, we can always deploy, and it would be a lot less expense. …
You understand what ——
You always have to be prepared to walk. It doesnt mean I want to walk. And I would prefer not to walk. You have to be prepared and our country cannot afford to do what were doing.
The coup never took place — the coup was not successful, and based on the fact, and I give great credit to him for being able to turn that around.
Yes, some people say that it was staged. You know that?
I dont think so, but I do give great credit to him for turning it around. You know, the first hour, it seemed like it was over. Then all of a sudden, and the amazing thing is the one that won that was the people. They came out on the streets, and the army types didnt want to drive over them like they did in Tiananmen Square when they sort of drived them over, and that was the end of that. Right? People said, Im not going to drive over people. The people came out of their homes, and they were not in favor of what the military was doing. So that was quite impressive from the standpoint of existing government. I will say this: I think Turkey can do a lot against ISIS, and I would hope that if Im dealing with them, they will do much more about ISIS.
I think right now when it comes to civil liberties, our country has a lot of problems, and I think its very hard for us to get involved in other countries when we dont know what we are doing and we cant see straight in our own country. We have tremendous problems when you have policemen being shot in the streets, when you have riots, when you have Ferguson. When you have Baltimore. When you have all of the things that are happening in this country — we have other problems, and I think we have to focus on those problems. When the world looks at how bad the United States is, and then we go and talk about civil liberties, I dont think were a very good messenger.
We need allies.
I dont know that we have a right to lecture. Just look about whats happening with our country. How are we going to lecture when people are shooting our policemen in cold blood. How are we going to lecture when you see the riots and the horror going on in our own country. We have so many difficulties in our country right now that I dont think we should be, and there may be a time when we can get much more aggressive on that subject, and it will be a wonderful thing to be more aggressive. Were not in a position to be more aggressive. We have to fix our own mess.
Im a fan of the Kurds, you understand.
Well, it would be ideal if we could get them all together. And that would be a possibility. But Im a big fan of the Kurdish forces. At the same time, I think we have a potentially — we could have a potentially very successful relationship with Turkey. And it would be really wonderful if we could put them somehow both together.
Meetings. If I ever have the opportunity to do it, meaning if I win, we will have meetings, we will have meetings very early on.
Very early on. I think its a natural. I think its a natural. I mean, we have two groups that are friendly and they are fighting each other. So if we could put them together, that would be something that would be possible to do, in my opinion.
No.
No. I came away with a lot of knowledge. I respect both men. …
I think well have a very good relationship with Mexico, and it will be a fair relationship. Right now, its a massive, Mexico is a massive loss. A massive loss for us. But I think it will be a very, very fair relationship and a very good relationship but right now, Mexico, we are losing on the border and we are losing on trade. We have billions of dollars of trade deficits with Mexico. Drugs are pouring in across the border. And they are beating us both on the border and with trade. I think well have a better relationship than we do now and it will be a much more fair relationship.
Oh, without question.
Without question. Nafta ——
If I dont get a change, I would pull out of Nafta in a split second. Nafta is signed by Bill Clinton, perhaps the worst trade deal ever signed in the history of this country. Its the worst trade deal ever signed in the history of this country and one of the worst trade deals ever signed anywhere in the world. Nafta is a disaster. You have to understand, I just campaigned, as you probably read, and I won all these states, and one of the reasons was because of Nafta. Because Nafta has drained manufacturing out of New York State, out of Pennsylvania, out of Ohio, out of so many different places. Its drained. And these companies have gone to Mexico, and theyve gone, theyve left with the jobs. David, I have statisticians, and I know, like if I went to Pennsylvania, I say, "Give me the statistics on what is going on with respect to manufacturing." Numbers — 45, 55, 65, I have states that are so bad. New England. Look at New England, what happened. Nafta has been a disaster for this country. And a disaster for the worker and Nafta is one of the reasons that, you know, there are people that havent had a wage increase 18 years in real wages. Actually, theyre lower, some are working two jobs, working much harder, then making less and theyre older. Its supposed to work the opposite. Youre making more, youre making more I hope.
Youve got to be fair to the country. Everyone is leaving. Carrier just announced theyre leaving. Ford is building a massive plant. So I have a friend who builds plants and then I have to go. I have a friend who builds plants, thats what he does, hes the biggest in the world, he builds plants like automobile plants, computer plants, thats all he does. He doesnt build apartments, he doesnt build office space, he builds plants. I said to him the other day, "How are you doing?" He goes, "Unbelievable." Oh, great, thats good, thinking about the United States, right, because hes based in the United States. So I said, "Good, so the country is doing well." He said, "No, no, not our country, youve got to see what Im doing in Mexico." He said: "The business there is unbelievable, the new plants we are building. People moving from the United States." Thats what he does. One-story plants. You understand?
No! No, I havent.
Hes been complimentary of me. I think Putin and I will get along very well.
But hes been complimentary of me.
I dont want to tell you what Id do because I dont want Putin to know what Id do. I have a serious chance of becoming president and Im not like Obama, that every time they send some troops into Iraq or anyplace else, he has a news conference to announce it.
We have many NATO members that arent paying their bills.
You cant forget the bills. They have an obligation to make payments. Many NATO nations are not making payments, are not making what theyre supposed to make. Thats a big thing. You cant say forget that.
Have they fulfilled their obligations to us? If they fulfill their obligations to us, the answer is yes.
Well, Im not saying if not. Im saying, right now there are many countries that have not fulfilled their obligations to us.
Well, were under cyberattack.
Cyber is absolutely a thing of the future and the present. Look, were under cyberattack, forget about them. And we dont even know where its coming from.
Because were obsolete. Right now, Russia and China in particular and other places.
Yes. I am a fan of the future, and cyber is the future.
Depends on who we are talking about, it depends on who we are talking about. I would only make that commitment as the agreement is being signed. I wouldnt want to play my cards. I dont want to say that.
I understand. I will do everything within my power never to be in a position where we have to use nuclear power because thats a whole different ballgame. Thats very important to me. I will do everything in my power never to be in a position where we will have to use nuclear power. Its very important to me.
I only like that premise if nobody else has them. But thats never going to happen.
I think we have a lot of obsolete weapons.
We have nuclear that we dont even know if it works. We have nuclear where the telephone systems are 40 years old and they have wire thats so corroded that they cant call from one station to the next.
We have nuclear that their silos are rusted so badly that they dont even know if the rockets are going to pour out.
Yes. Yes, I think you need all three parts, but — but we have, much of what we have is obsolete. Now, Russia, if you look at what theyre doing, theyre building submarines, theyre going to a level. …
I dont want to be specific because I dont want ISIS to know what Im planning. I do have ideas, very strong ideas on ISIS.
Oh, I would love to have a good relationship where Russia and I, instead of, and us, and the U.S., instead of fighting each other we got along. It would be wonderful if we had good relationships with Russia so that we dont have to go through all of the drama.
I dont want to say that, I have a very specific view on Assad, but I think we have to get rid of ISIS before we get rid of Assad.
Look, Assad hates ISIS; ISIS hates Assad. They are fighting each other. We are supposed to go and fight them both? How do you fight them both when they are fighting each other? And I think that ISIS is a threat thats much more important for us right now than Assad. You understand what Im saying?
Because Assad and ISIS are fighting. Now we are going to go in and fight them both, because we have people that dont know what they are doing. We have people that dont know what they are doing. So I would get rid of ISIS, but I dont want to fight at the same time. The other thing you have is, is Assad is backed by a country that we made a power, O.K.? Iran. And Russia, O.K.? So why didnt we do something about that before we made Iran rich, and before we gave them this tremendous power that they now have, that they didnt have and shouldnt have had?
Well, youve given them $150 billion.
Theyre getting a lot of money. And they have an agreement thats a terrible agreement in my opinion. Its an agreement that will get them to nuclear quicker than had we had no agreement. But thats a different question. You asked me about Assad. So Assad is a bad man. Done horrible things. We have to get ISIS first, and you dont want to fight them both at the same time when they are fighting each other. So I hope you treat me fairly. And I hope you say that I do know my subject. And I do know it. I know it better than, I know it better than the people that do it for ——
No, its fine. I wanted to protect her. Shes been a person thats been very good ——
Absolutely. But it was getting to a point where it didnt make sense. Look at your story today. Give me a break. We are talking about ISIS. We are talking about Iran and Iraq and we are walking about and you put, the biggest story is about, the No. 1 story in The New York Times today is about this? She was terrific. Shes a terrific woman, shes been with us a long time and she just made the mistake. You saw her letter?
And she came and she said, "Mr. Trump, Id like to say what happened." I thought it was such a nice thing.
Two days ago?
Yeah.
Who knew this was going to be a big story? What Im saying is, she came in after the speech. But she was, I thought that was very nice.
Well, originally, but I didnt know it was going to be a big story. She was more interested in, because Melania did a phenomenal job ——
Very well received. And she was more interested in getting that straight, because she thought it was very unfair to Melania, who did a phenomenal job. And Im glad, it was very nice that she did it. She offered her resignation. I said, "I really appreciate what you did." I think its terrific that she came forward instead of me going to her and I said, "I wont accept it," and she was thrilled with that. She was happy with it.
Look, Obama copied a speech from Massachusetts. Joe Biden is famous for copying speeches. Obama had another one with Bush, I read it I think in your paper. Ive been reading about this stuff all my life. It happens, it can happen. In this case, it happened. You know the story. By the way, the letter cleared up everything, cleared up everything. The only thing is, if I had done it a day earlier it would have been better.
A day earlier, in retrospect. But I didnt clear it up and people are giving, I think, everybody a lot of credit right now.
From the convention? The fact that Im very well liked. Look, I got more votes than anybody in the history of the Republican Party. Almost 14 million votes. I got 37 states. Kasich has one. As an example, Ted had, you know, not many. Thirty-seven states. Now, with the roll call, I had 44 states. It was 44 to seven and the seven was everybody else: 44 to seven. It was 44 to six because we are including the different islands. And when you are in that hall and you see those people, like yesterday, my daughter called up, she said, "Dad, Ive never seen it — its total love."
I dont get love from the media. Instead of reporting like it is. But I think that people are starting to see whats going on, because I really believe theres a movement going on and its a movement based on common sense, its a movement based on law and order, its a movement based on compassion, based on a lot of different things. Based on trade.
Yeah.
To me, America First is a brand-new modern term. I never related it to the past.
Its just, no. In fact when I said America First, people said, "Oh, wait a minute, isnt that a historical term?" And when they told me, I said: "Look, its America First. This is not ——"
I was familiar, but it wasnt used for that reason. It was used as a brand-new, very modern term.
