Donald Trump|Press Conference: Donald Trump Speaks To Reporters Before Marine One Departure|October 13, 2017
What its going to do is its going to be time to negotiate healthcare thats going to be good for everybody. That money is a subsidy for insurance companies. Take a look at their stocks. Look where they are. Theyre going through the roof, from past -- I donÕt know about today.
But the insurance companies that made a fortune, that money was a subsidy and almost, you could say, a payoff for insurance companies.
And what we have to do is come up with great healthcare. Now, thats what I did partially yesterday; thats going to cover a big segment. But now, for the rest, we have to come up with great -- whether its going to be block grants or something else. And we just about have the votes.
Now, if the Democrats were smart, what theyd do is come and negotiate something where people could really get the kind of healthcare that they deserve, being citizens of our great country.
Because well see what happens over the next short period of time. And I can do that instantaneously. I like a two-step process much better.
Because I think what well do is well be able to renegotiate so that everybody gets to. We just took care of a big chunk, and now well take care of the other chunk. What would be nice -- if the Democratic leaders could come over to the White House, well negotiate some deal thats good for everybody. Thats what Id like.
But theyre always a block vote against everything. Theyre like obstructionists. If they came over, maybe we could make a deal. But the subsidy is really a subsidy to the insurance company. Thats not going to people; thats making the insurance companies rich.
Well, I may do that. I may do that. The deal is terrible. So what weve done is, through the certification process, well have Congress take a look at it, and I may very well do that. But I like a two-step process much better. John?
We have great support.
Well, theyve already lost a big chunk, because as you know thats a big chunk and its very popular. And you will have millions and millions of people sign up under that. You could say -- I mean, Im not doing that consciously. I will say this, John -- I will say that the Democrats should come to me; I would even go to them.
Because Im only interested in one thing: getting great healthcare for this country. That was a big chunk. And as far as the subsidy is concerned, I donÕt want to make the insurance companies rich.
If you look at their stock price over the last number of years, take a look at whats happened with those insurance companies. Theyre making a fortune by getting that kind of money.
We will see what happens with Iran. Were very unhappy with Iran. They have not treated us with the kind of respect that they should be treating. They should have thanked Barack Obama for making that deal. They were gone. They were economically gone.
He infused $100  to $150 billion into their economy. He gave them $1.7 billion in cash. And they should be, "Thank you
We are studying national emergency right now. Believe it or not, doing national emergency, as you understand, is a very big statement.
We will be doing that. My wife, Melania, who happens to be right here, finds that subject to be of such vital importance, and shes very much involved. And as you know, shes on the committee and really wants to be involved in that process.
Yes.
They would love me to stay in, only for one reason: Look at the kind of money thats being sent. You know, Iran is spending money in various countries.
And Ive always said it, and I say to them: Dont do anything. Dont worry about it. Take all the money you can get. Theyre all friends of mine.
Actually, Emmanuel called up, and he talked to me. And I said, look, Emmanuel, they just gave Renault a lot of money. Take their money; enjoy yourselves. But well see what happens.
Iran has to behave much differently.
The CSR payments, if you take a look at CSR payments, that money is going to insurance companies to prop up insurance companies.
That money is going to insurance companies to lift up their stock price, and thats not what Im about.
Take a look at who those insurance companies support, and I guarantee you one thing: Its not Donald Trump.
Well, I think were going to take a look, John, at what happens. Were going to see what happens. Were going to see what they come back with. They may come back with something thats very satisfactory to me, and if they dont, within a very short period of time, Ill terminate the deal.
And as far as Puerto Rico is concerned, I love Puerto Rico.
Weve done a great job. Weve done a great job in Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico has to get the infrastructure going. Were helping them with their infrastructure.
But most important on Puerto Rico is their electric plants are essentially gone. Now, they were gone before the hurricane; they were in bankruptcy, they owed $9 billion -- I think it was $9 billion. But the plants, as you know, were -- the electric was a disaster. After the storm, even more so.
We have to help them get the plants rebuilt. Thats a long-term project, unfortunately. But we have to help them.
But I love the people of Puerto Rico, and were going to help them.
Well, you have to watch -- you cant say there was a hurricane, and now were going to spend X dollars. And we also have to do something with all the money thats been invested, mostly private.
The government is going to have to become before that money, because the government is going to want security. Theyre going to have to become before that money. And Im sure well be able to work that out.
But the Puerto Rican people have tremendous spirit. When I was there and I looked at the way that -- what they have to go through. They have a lot of problems. Were going to help them straighten it out.
Were going to see what happens with North Korea. Thats all I can say. Were going to see what happens. Were totally prepared for numerous things. We are going to see what happens with North Korea.
I will say, look, if something can happen where we negotiate, Im always open to that. But if its going to be something other than negotiation, believe me, we are ready, more so than we have ever been.
