Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Green Bay, WI|August 5, 2016
Special. Special. He is a special man and special person. And he has become my friend. Oh, there is a lot of people here. Whoa. 
Hello, everybody. Your football team is going to have a great year. 
I watch. I watch. You've got the quarterback, you've got the whole deal. I think it's going to be a very good year. 
OK? And if you get into that Super Bowl, I will be going, all right?
So, you know, I wrote something down before, and I think it is important, because -- I love you too. 
Because we need unity, we have to win this election. This is truly one of the most important elections, certainly in my lifetime. Because we are about to go -- we lose it, we are in the wrong direction, and maybe it's gone. Supreme Court justices, always remember that. But so many different levels, and when you see what happened with crooked Hillary today, it was a disaster. 
A disaster. She had a disaster. She lies folks, she lies . 
So, I want to -- I just wrote this out. I wanted to say to the group, you know, I had a great time when I was in Wisconsin, and I did not quite eke it out. I thought I was going to, but after that, it worked out well. You built me up, you taught me about politics.
And when I left here, I said, I think I've learned a lot. 
So, I love it. I love the people. I have many friends in Wisconsin. And they're -- they're incredible people. You're incredible people, I have to tell you that. 
And we're going to have a lot of fun. We are going to have a lot of fun . This campaign is not about me or any one candidate. It is about America. 
It is time for a change. We need a change. A real change, not an Obama change. We don't need an Obama change. We have had enough. It is time to change a rigged political system that works only for the insiders, and replace it with a government that serves the people. 
Have to do it. And know both sides. I've been on the other side. Believe me. I actually like this side better; this is a movement. This is a movement like they may be have never seen in this country, according to even the political pundits that truly hate me, OK? This is a -- they -- oh, this is a movement that some say, most say is one of the great phenomenons that they've ever seen in politics.
Some say it's the single greatest phenomenon. 
Though the media doesn't want to talk about it, we have done something -- we. All of us, together. I'm a messenger; I'm only a messenger. We have done something truly historic together, standing before you as nominee for president and I'm not a politician, proudly. 
I'm not part of the system. I ran against the system, and I'm probably better off running against the system. 
I ran against the donors. I'm my own donor, essentially. I have a lot of money under this deal. This is a very expensive crisis, I want to tell you. 
I funded -- as you know, I funded the primaries. And I'm in for under $60 million, and I'm largely funding my campaign as we go forward. In addition to that -- in addition to that, we have raised tremendous amounts of money, and much of it from small donors,$61; $61. As a Republican, that doesn't happen. It happens because of what you are seeing in front of you today.
And if you remember, just prior to June, they did a story, Donald Trump has not really done too well with fund raising." Well
But I wanted to make sure -- so I got it. And then I started raising money for the Republican Party. and we raised a lot of money. We started really on June 14th, Flag Day, my birthday. My birthday. 
And in June, we raised approximately -- think of this -- $51 million. Can you imagine? 
And those people couldn't believe it; they were really surprised. Big headlines, you know. Because they don't give me too many good headlines. I could do the greatest things. I do things that I think a fantastic.
I say, good, there is no way they cover this badly. And they cover it badly. I gently tell a woman that I love her baby, and let the baby cry. It is OK. As the baby that had a voice that was superior to Pavarotti continued to cry -- I remember, I told her to stay, don't worry, ma'am.
But after about 3 or 4 minutes, and I'm trying to speak and it was in Jacksonville, we had this massive, massive crowd, filled up the stadium. And the baby's screaming. So, I said, ma'am, I would like to reverse my order. Perhaps you could nicely take -- take the baby out. Your baby is great.
I did it so nicely. She was happy. Even the baby was happy. He stopped crying. 
And maybe you could take the baby out, would that be possible? The whole place was cracking up. And the next day in the newspaper, it said, Trump throws baby out of arena."""nd maybe you could take the baby"
Terrible. Now, they are very dishonest. That was a tough one, when I -- and I just had a reporter come up to me, backstage, a reporter come up -- Mr. Trump
IN fact, I want to find out who that baby is, because I want to sponsor the baby. And that baby will sing someday in Philharmonic Hall. I'm telling you. New York City. OK? The great Philharmonic. 
So, I'm not part of the system. I ran against the system. I ran against the donors, because I'm largely my own donor. I'm running against myself. That's sort of -- never thought of it that way. And against the status quo, and the status quo, we have to get rid of, because it is not working, folks, because the country is a mess. 
And that is why put up a lot of money. But while the Democrats nominated the candidate of special interests, and really a candidate of total corruption, I mean, you take a look at what she is doing, the Republicans made history by choosing a nominee from outside of this very, very corrupt the system. It is a corrupt system.
It's a corrupt system. You want something done, they couldn't do it for you. And that is not necessarily, and usually it isn't good for the country.
That is why we're going to be able to deliver real change, and real safety and real opportunity to all Americans. We have to unite. Remember that.
Everything I've accomplished, I have done by putting together a really fantastic team, including Governor Mike Pence of Indiana, who has done an incredible... 
Done an incredible job. My wonderful staff of people that really love what we are doing, and they are working so hard. My family, friends, and it's expanding all the time.
But I need a Republican Senate and a House to accomplish all of the changes that we have to make. We have to make them, right? 
I understand and embrace the wisdom of Ronald Reagan's big tent within the party, big, big tent, remember? Ronald Reagan, great man, great guy. Remember he included Reagan Democrats and Independents and Republicans, a lot of people. We're going to have the same thing. There a lot of Democrats perhaps in this room, are there a lot of Democrats? Raise your hands. I mean, I don't think we need too many to be honest with you, but -- so I embraced the wisdom that my 80 percent friend is not my 20 percent enemy, Ronald Reagan. 
Stated by Ronald Reagan, pretty good.
We will be the big tent party. We are going to have a lot of cross help. We are going to have a lot of Bernie Sanders people coming in because of trade, because Bernie Sanders knew we were being ripped off by trade. Trade is a disaster with China, with Japan, with Mexico, with Vietnam, with so many countries, with every country, every country.
We don't win at any level with anything, and as a unified party, we will lead our country to unity as well, very important. We need the unity, we have to win the election. 
No we have to win it --- have to win it. Otherwise, our big movement was not as big as we thought and that's not good. That's why November 8th, you've got to get everybody you know -- and you know, all this voter ID nowadays, a lot of places aren't going to have voter ID. Now what does that mean? What does that mean? You just keep walking in and voting? So you have to be very careful, very vigilant -- you have to be careful.
But we will have disagreements, but we will disagree as friends and never stop working together toward victory, and very importantly, toward real change. 
So in our shared mission to make America great again, I support and endorse our speaker of the House, Paul Ryan. 
Paul Ryan, he's good. He's a good man. He's a good man and he's a good guy. And we may disagree on a couple of things, but mostly we agree and we're going get it done and we're going to do a lot of wonderful things. 
He's a good man. And while I'm at it, I hold in the highest esteem Senator John McCain for his service to our country, in uniform and in public office, and I fully support and endorse his re-election. Very important. 
We'll work together. I also fully support and endorse Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire. 
A state I truly love, primarily because that was my first victory, but I love New Hampshire. No, I love New Hampshire, one of the most beautiful places. She's a rising star and will continue to represent the great people of New Hampshire so very well for a long, long time. Senator Kelly Ayotte. 
Working hand-in-hand, we will grow our majority in the House and in the Senate. We need that, we've got to get things done. Arm in arm, we will rescue the nation from the Obama-Clinton disaster, which is exactly what it is, that has bled our country dry and spread terrorism unabated across the world, that's what's happening. You saw it just now, Maps came out yesterday, they said ISIS far bigger, it's all over the place. It's all over the place. We're going to get rid of it, folks. 
Our military is depleted. We're going to build up our military, we are going to get others with us. Believe me, we're going to get plenty of others with us. And speaking of others, wouldn't it actually be wonderful if we could get along with Russia? Wouldn't that be nice? 
They talk so big and so brave and so tough, they're the tough ones. You know, Hillary's real tough, give me a break. Wouldn't that be great? We get along with Russia, we go out together with others and we knock the hell out of ISIS, wouldn't that be great? 
Together we will lead our country back to prosperity, security and peace. OK? When you look at the world and what's happened -- so we have the queen of corruption, she's the queen of corruption. She is a disaster. I said before, if crooked Hillary Clinton becomes president, terrorism will destroy the inner workings of our country. Believe me, they are loving it.
She wants to have 550 percent more people coming in from Syria and that region into our nation. And we don't know who they are, we don't know where they come from really, we don't know if they're ISIS, some will be. And look at the damage that's done in San Bernardino with a couple -- probably he became radicalized by her -- a couple, and these were friends of theirs. These were people that gave a party in celebration of the birth of their child and they were gunned down, 14 people killed, many, many injured.
Take a look at Orlando -- take a look at Orlando, how disgusting that was. Take a look at the World Trade Center and so many other places. Go to the probably toughest gun laws anywhere in the world, go to Paris and take a look at that, 130 people gunned down. You know, if people had guns, on the other side where the bullets are flying in the other direction, like you sir, you sir, you and you, ma'am. 
First of all, if they knew guns were in the room, they probably wouldn't have gone there. There were no guns. They were just sitting ducks, 130 people. In San Bernardino you had 14 people.
But in Paris, just like this, boom -- get over here, boom -- get over here, boom -- 130 people with many still in the hospital, many so gravely wounded. It's horrible. And if they had bullets flying in the other direction, maybe they wouldn't have shown up, and if they did, I'll tell you what, you wouldn't have had that kind of carnage. You would have had people lying on the other side of the floor instead. 
So Hillary Clinton wants to do major damage, as you know, to our Second Amendment. Hillary Clinton wants to put judges -- she wants to put justices of the Supreme Court -- she's going to make them nice and liberal, wait until -- wait until you see what that does to your rights. Wait until you see what that does to your Second Amendment. You will not recognize it, you will not recognize it. National Rifle Association, NRA, endorsed me. 
They're great people, Wayne -- they're great people, Chris, they love this country. They endorsed me very early and it's really a -- it's really an honor. I'll tell you what, they are phenomenal people when you get to know them. They love the country -- you know, they love the country. They take a lot of heat, but they love the country, I'll tell you that right now.
And I heard Mike, Governor Pence, talking about 1.2 growth -- 1.2 percent growth, the lowest in memory since the 1940's. When you think about it, it's the lowest. So a lot of differences between all of us, but I thought I would mention -- because I've known Hillary Clinton over the years -- I know her -- and she makes statements. She makes statements and they are statements coming out of her playbook.
Well, let's see, we can't get them for this -- can't get them for this." I've always heard that I have the best temperament
She said not so long ago, I don't like Donald Trump's tone". Now
We have people being beheaded all over the Middle East and other places. We have crime that is rampant. We have people in the Middle East being drowned in steel cages. This is like medieval times, and she is worried about my tone.
So they chop off heads and they drown people, and they bury people in sand. And then they ask me, Mr. Trump
Can you imagine what the enemy must say -- can you imagine the enemy -- ISIS in this case -- can you imagine what they must say as they spent the day chopping off the heads of Christians -- come back
Folks, we better get smart and tough and we are playing games with Hillary, we are playing games. It is just games, she is not the right person and everybody knows it. Her single greatest achievement is being caught in a crime and getting away with it. 
This is true, 33,000 e-mails. 
So I wrote this before on the way over to another rally at also a very nice place that's very full and very nice in Iowa. And we love Iowa don't we, yes? Right? 
I thought it was accurate, unstable -- and she is, she is unstable. Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment that Bernie Sanders had. You just have to pay attention, as soon as he said it, I started writing notes.
She has bad judgment. She lacks the judgment, temperament and moral character to lead this country. Plus, she is a weak person. We don't need a weak person. He just said, plus
She is a dangerous liar who has disregarded the lives of Americans, and who has put all of us at great risk while supporting economic policies that have destroyed our economy. We have a long way to go.
She is unhinged, she's truly unhinged, and she is unbalanced, totally unbalanced. And you can see, in the words of a secret service agent who just wrote a book, I bought the book, I wanted to see what he had to say; she simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office."""he is unhinged
From my bottom of my soul he said, I know this to be true." He was there. "Her leadership style
Thank you. What great people. Wow.
No, but it is true, no games, it is true. In one way she is a monster, OK? Look at what happened, look at her history. In another way, she is a weak person, she is actually not strong enough to be president. So she's got both, but she is not strong enough to be president.
She will be a be a disaster. She will be so bad for our country, and I'm not just talking about Justices of the Supreme Court. She will be so bad for our country and we can't let it happen. We can't let it happen.
You know, Mike Pence told me a story, and maybe I should not say it, but I found it interesting, but of the reasons -- I guess the primary reason that he's in politics is because he watched the crookedness of the Clintons when they were in the White House. And he said he ran
But he watched the Clintons -- and I'm sure they will be thrilled to hear that -- but that actually got him into politics, which is interesting.
So then we make these horrible deals; Iran Deal, horrible deal, we got $150 billion -- and how about $400 million -- think of it, $400 million in cash, different currencies, different denominations. Now, lot of people say that money went toward terror.
I'm nicer than that, see, I don't have that horrible thought process that some people have in this room have. I say, some of it went to terror, but a lot of it went into their bank accounts, believe me, that's the way it is. It went into their pockets, can you imagine these guys sitting there with $400 million in cash? You think they're giving that money to terror, they are giving that money to them and I guess terror got some of it, but most of it they kept.
I mean, the concept of paying $400 million in cash is mind- boggling. I mean, you wouldn't think -- who can authorize such a thing? Where did they get it? What did they do, go to a bank teller and say, give me $400 million in cash? I want to in euros
I mean, it is just inconceivable. So we are witnessing a horror show in this country and throughout the world. You look at what is going on throughout the world with these same people, these people funding terror -- these people are funding terrorism. For us to have given $400 million to basically free our hostages.
Now, Obama, just like he lied about Obamacare which was a tremendous lie, that was a tremendous lie, remember? You can keep your plan
Keep your plan, keep your doctor -- not working that way, folks. It is a disaster. By the way, it is going to be repealed and replaced 100 percent. 
And -- and honestly, I hope I win, because we will do a great job. We are going to make America great again. We're going to make America great again. 
But I actually think that regardless of who wins, Obamacare is going to fold in any event. It is so expensive. People can't afford it and the country can't afford it. Other than that, it is just wonderful. So, in Texas, they just had almost a 60 percent increase. Now the increases are starting to come out. The big increase is going to be announced on November 1st. The election is November 8th. Folks, they want to delay it, because it is election-changing. It is a mess.
It is election changing, and they want to change it. And we can't let that happen.
Because the numbers -- and I can see some of the numbers already -- the numbers are going to be astronomical. They are going to be astronomical. They're going to be so big, so horrible, and the health care, you know, the plan is terrible. It's terrible. And we're going to take care of everybody, but we're going to end up with a great plan that costs much less money for the people and much less money for the country.
This plan is a total rip. It does not work, so it's going to fall, because economically, it is a disaster for the country, too.
But what about people where they said they had a 30, 40, 50, 60 percent increase? And it's going to be worse than that, I predict on November 1st.
So, we'd better get smart and we'd better start thinking properly.
Now, I want to talk about what is going on at the borders, because money... 
Oh, we're going to build it.
Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!
So, listen, so we have people coming to our country that should not be coming to our country . We have thousands and thousands of people from certain terrorist states, from certain parts of the world that we are allowing to come into our country.
Most of the politicians, almost all of them don't even know where they are, where they are being put, they know nothing about these people. This could be the great Trojan Horse of all time. And Hillary wants thousands more to come in over and above Obama. Right?
So, tall -- and the wall is getting taller every day. 
If you think of this, I just wrote this, the Obama-Clinton foreign-policy has handed huge portions of Iraq, Libya and Syria to ISIS. Huge portions. It has undermined stability in Egypt, and you know what they have to do over there. And empowered Iran as never before. Iran, three years ago was -- was dying. In fact, when they were marching in the streets, if Obama would have just encouraged them a little more, it would have been taken over by the people.
But Obama played ball with the thugs that are running it right now. Think of this, think of this. Look, look. We're making a deal, and the deal is not made, and they are dancing in the streets of Iran saying how stupid the Americans are to be making this deal.
The leaders, and in particular the leader of Iran, is calling us stupid, and the deal means nothing.
And yesterday, I think he just said that the United States is essentially nothing.
This is our -- this is our great, great partner.
But when you have somebody -- if I was making this deal, and if the other side was bragging about it, the deal wasn't made, I'm not making that deal. I'm not making it. I'm walking.
But we kept it going, and we should have never ever started negotiating that deal until we had our hostages back. OK? 
We should have walked. We should have doubled up the sanctions and walked. And they would have -- and I say it. Before the plane reached New York City or Washington, you could just turn it around, because they'll call you, they'll say, let's go. Take your hostages.
But when you think about it, you probably read today and yesterday, one of the hostages was waiting for a very long period of time. Now, Obama said that it had nothing to do with the hostages. That he would not do that for kidnappers.
He would not do that for kidnapping. OK? No, no, think of that. You have got to think about it. He wouldn't do it -- now, it was the same day, right, same day. We have to be exactly accurate, because they'll catch us, right? Same day.
The money came in, and one of the hostages, a good guy, I saw him interview on television. Good guy, hard time. Btu didn't he say he waited forever, he waited. And somebody said, nope, we are waiting for either something or a plane to come in.
And here Obama stands up yesterday, and for seven minutes is telling us one thing had nothing to do with the other. Just a lie. You know, at least be truthful. 
And we're talking about the same day, $400 million, and we could have had something that would have been a much better deal. And you know what, I'm all in favor of deals when it gets to nuclear. But we could have made it -- we should have walked. And we should have walked with $150, too; we have said, sorry, we don't have the money, can't pay. We don't have the money. We owe almost $20 trillion.
I'm sorry, fellas, we love you, we think you're the greatest guys on Earth. But we can't give you the money. We don't have it. And they will get angry and they will be upset, and two days later, you'll be back negotiating.
You just saved yourself $150 billion, right? Hundred and -- $150 billion. 
So, we have terrorists pouring into our country, we have people coming in. I don't know if you saw this, in Maine -- and Maine knows, because Maine is -- I was up there yesterday -- a great place. A great governor, great governor. Paul is doing a great job.
And I think the most important issue facing civilization right now is radical Islamic terrorism. And we have a president that refuses to use the term, and we have crooked Hillary who does not want to use it. Now, she's being forced to use it by me.
Did you notice she gave a speech, she said, I will use it. She called it, I think, radical Islam. But she said, I will use it. I will. Just like the Trans-Pacific Partnership. She called it the gold standard. It is a horror show.
It's almost as bad or maybe it's going to worse than NAFTA, signed by her husband, which cleaned out many of the states in our country, cleaned them out from manufacturing. Moved to Mexico and other places. NAFTA, a total disaster.
NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton. He never suffered the ravages, because he signed it, then he got out and other people did suffer with it.
But we are going to renegotiate NAFTA, and if they don't want to make a great deal for us so we get our jobs back, at least a lot of them, if we can't make a great deal -- and she can't do that, by the way, if she wanted to.
Number one, her donors would not let her. Her special interests would never let her. Her lobbyists would never let her.
Number three, she could not do it anyway. Even if she wanted to.
But we're going to renegotiate. And did you hear her the other day? After years of saying how wonderful it is, even though you look at New England, and you look at New York state and you look at Pennsylvania and Ohio, if you look at a lot of other places, one of the reasons I won Indiana so big -- well, one of the reasons was the great Bobby Knight, OK?
Bobby Knight in Indiana. 
That's gold standard right? As she said about TPP. But one of the reasons I won was because Carrier Air Conditioning was moving to Mexico from Indiana, and they let go of 1,400 people.
And I've been talking about this, and I know how to stop it, and you've heard me before, so easy to stop. There have to be consequences when Mexico takes our companies. And not only Mexico; there have to be consequences when China devalues its currency so that our companies can no longer compete with China, even though we make better product.
I have friends who are manufacturers. We make better product. They can't get their product into China no how. And when a few times arise where they can, they have to pay an incredible tax, beyond what anybody would even think costs. But yet, we open our doors and just throw away your stuff, and we lose our jobs and it is very, very said.
But look, as many know, a major destination -- Maine, has become a major destination for Somali refugees. We admit hundreds of thousands of refugees into the United States from many of the most dangerous and unstable regions in the world. And you are getting them here too folks, you just don't know it because you just don't know.
Anybody in this room -- anybody in this room from a terror territory? All right, a practice -- and this is a practice which will continue under Hillary Clinton except it will expand five, six, seven fold. I don't get it. I mean, I know they will vote Democrat, OK, that's what I know, but they will not be voting for a long time.
I just -- I don't get it, how can anybody even think this way? Now, the Washington Times reported, of the Somali refugees -- the program in Minnesota -- that the effort to resettle large groups of Somali refugees is having the unintended consequence of creating an enclave of immigrants with high unemployment that is both stressing the state safety net" -- tremendous problems for safety -- "and creating a rich pool of potential recruiting targets for the Islamic terror groups.""" just -- I don't get it
Aren't we smart? We are having this problem across our refugee and immigration programs. Here are some of the examples -- I will give you a few examples, and this came out of the Senate subcommittee just recently. The Boston bombers" -- remember those horrible
The younger brother applied for citizenship and was naturalized on September 11, 2012. The older brother had a pending application for citizenship.And look what happened
The Moroccan national who came to the United States on a student visa was arrested for plotting to blow up a university in a federal courthouse. Great. A Uzbek refugee living in Idaho was arrested and charged with providing support to a terrorist organization in the form of teaching terror recruits how to build massive and very dangerous bombs. We let him in.
An immigrant from Syria who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was accused by federal prosecutors of planning to go to a military base in Texas and kill three or four American soldiers, execution style if possible -- more than that, if at all possible.
A college student who immigrated from Somalia who later applied and received U.S. citizenship, attempted to blow up a Christmas tree lighting ceremony in Oregon.
An immigrant from Afghanistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship, and a legal permanent resident from the Philippines were convicted for plotting to join Al Qaida and the Taliban in order to kill as many Americans as possible -- as many as possible.
An Iraqi immigrant who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for lying to federal agents about pledging allegiance to ISIS, his travels to Syria, and how many Americans he wanted to kill.
Two immigrants from Pakistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship were sentenced to decades long prison sentences for plotting to detonate a bomb -- and a very big bomb, in the middle of New York City.
An immigrant from Yemen who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for trying to join ISIS. He was also charged with attempting to illegally buy firearms to try to shoot as many American military personnel as possible.
All right folks. So, I just say, what are we doing? What are we doing? And Hillary Clinton wants more and more to pour in. You can almost say, you know, politics aside, whether you are a Democrat, whether you are a liberal, a Republican, a conservative; what are they doing? I don't care who you are, what the hell are they doing? 
So we are going to have strong borders, our southern border is going to be very powerful. We are going to stop the drugs from pouring into Wisconsin and every place else. 
The heroin epidemic is beyond belief. In New Hampshire, a great place, that is where I realized the extent of what is going on. I met with the people of New Hampshire and they tell me, the biggest problem they have is heroin." I said
You know that Hillary Clinton wanted a wall a number of years ago? She wanted a wall. And the primary research, as we understand it, looking back, not that long ago, she wanted a wall. You know, walls do work folks, all you have to do is ask Israel. All you have to do is ask some of the nations that are in Europe right now that are building walls.
You know, it's sort of interesting, Obama talks about, there will be no wall." But in the White House
You know, it is interesting. I say, don't build that fence right

OK, I mean it. They should immediately give up their weapons. They should immediately give up those weapons and if somebody comes at you with a gun, you just try to talk them out of it, I guess. You got to do some quick talking.