Donald Trump|Press Gaggle: Donald Trump Speaks to the Press Before Marine One Departure|July 5, 2019
Thats a great crowd of people. We had a phenomenal crowd last night, and it was a fantastic evening for our country. Youre going to have a lot of people being recruited, I think, based on that. Were going to have a lot of -- a lot of people joining our military. And we really needed that. Our job numbers are so good that the military has a hard time getting people.
And I think, really, that youre going to see a big spike. Ive already heard it -- a lot of people calling in. No place like our military. I think we showed that last night. We had great numbers this morning. I think it was 224,000 jobs. Those were really unexpectedly good. And our country continues to do really well.
Really, really well. So were very happy about it. I think were going to -- were going to be breaking records. If we had a Fed that would lower interest rates, wed be like a rocket ship, but were paying a lot of interest and its unnecessary. But we dont have a Fed that knows what theyre doing, so its one of those little things.
But if we had a Fed that would lower rates, you would have a rocket ship. When Obama -- President Obama -- was here, he paid close to zero interest rates. Im paying real interest, and yet our economy is much better than its ever been. From Election Day, were over 50 percent increase, and we pay trillions and trillions of dollars -- with a "T" -- trillions.
So were doing very well. But last night was spectacular. Yes.
Yeah. I would love rural broadband. Were working on it. And I would love to have the Democrats come back and talk about infrastructure, talk about drug pricing. Were going to be announcing something very shortly -- a favored nations clause. As you know, for years and years, other nations paid less for drugs than we do -- sometimes by 60, 70 percent.
Were going to be -- and were working on it right now. Were working on a favored nations clause, where we pay whatever lowest nations price is. Why should other nations, like Canada -- but why should other nations pay much less than us? Theyve taken advantage of the system for a long time -- pharma.
So were working on, right now, a favored nations clause, so that whatever the lowest nation is, anywhere in the world -- or company -- but the lowest nation or company. Then what happens is we will pay that amount, and thats being worked on right now. Were going to do it in the form of an executive order.
Were thinking about doing that. Its one of the ways; we have four or five ways we can do it. Its one of the ways that were thinking about doing it very seriously. Were doing well on the census.
No, he made a statement. He wrote something out. The judge didnt like it. I have a lot of respect for Justice Roberts. But he didnt like it. But he did say, "Come back." Essentially, he said, "Come back." Thats what he was saying.
So well see what happens. We could also add an addition on so we can start the printing now and maybe do an addendum after we get a positive decision. So were working on a lot things, including an executive order.
I dont think Im bully at all. I just dont like taking -- being taken advantage of by other countries, by pharmaceutical companies, by all of the people that have taken advantage of this country. You look at what Joe Biden has done with China. Weve lost our shirts with China and now China is dying to make a deal.
So -- and were taking, by the way, billions and billions of dollars in tariffs are coming in -- and China is paying for it, not our people. So, if you look at what weve done, and if you look at what weve straightened out, the -- I call it the "Obama-Biden mess." Were straightening it out, whether its North Korea -- you were going to end up in a war with North Korea as sure as youre standing there.
And now the relationship is a good relationship. Well see what happens. But as sure as youre there, you were going to end up in a war with North Korea.
Well, I dont call them "raids." I say they came in illegally, and were bringing them out legally. These are people where we have the papers, weve gone through the court system. Theyll be starting fairly soon. But I dont call them "raids." Were removing people that have come in -- all of these people over the years that have come in illegally -- we are removing them and bringing them back to their country.
Well, I dont think of it in terms of that; were just celebrating our country. But there is nobody stronger. Theres nobody that has a military anywhere close to ours. As you know, we spent $700 billion. When I took over the military, it was absolutely depleted. We had old planes, we had old jets, we had bad -- I mean, just stuff that was tired.
Now we have the finest jets in the world: the F-35; the F-18s -- the new one. We have military equipment the likes of which weve never had. Building submarines, building aircraft carriers -- all made in the USA. So its a double. Its all made -- Now, Im all about jobs. We had great job numbers today. But when it comes to the military, its not about jobs.
We have to have the greatest in the world. Theres nobody that comes close. And our military now is just about the top -- just about the best its ever been. Theres nobody that comes close to the power we have in our military. What we have -- and, in fact, if you look, our nuclear now is in great shape.
Weve renovated. Weve fixed. Were buying some new. Never want to use it. You never want to use it. But we have to be in a position that -- we have to be in a position. But our nuclear is in great shape. Our military now is in great shape.
Well, I can just tell you, those people that you see -- theres a lot of people in front of the White House -- every one of them loved it. I would actually say -- and I want to sort of give a little appreciation -- the media, generally speaking, loved it. They loved the evening. We had a lot of rain. I stood in the rain.
The teleprompter went out, so I had --
Yeah, the teleprompter went out. It kept going on. And then, at the end, it just went out. It went kaput. So I could have said -- and, actually, right in the middle of that sentence, it went out. And thats not a good feeling, when youre standing in front of millions of millions of people on television, and -- I dont know what the final count was, but that went all the way back to the Washington Monument.
And I guess the rain knocked out the teleprompter. So -- but, no, its not that. I knew the speech very well, so I was able to do it without a teleprompter. But the teleprompter did go out. And it was actually hard to look at anyway because there was rain all over it. But, despite the rain, that was just a fantastic evening.
I think people really had it. And I think a lot of people -- you know, it was really a recruitment situation. A lot of people are going to be going our Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast Guard.
Well, she campaigned on "Im going to get Trump. Im going to get Trump." She never knew me. I never met her. I dont know who she is. But she cam- -- her whole campaign was that. And thats illegal; youre not allowed to do that. She knew nothing about me. She campaigned -- "Oh, Im going to get Trump. Im..."
We have 100 clips, and so do you. And you cant do that. Our system isnt about that. Our system isnt about, "Lets see if we can find something." You cant do that. But her whole campaign was "Im going to get Trump. Im going to get him." You cant do that.
It would have to be a long time. You know what? Its very interesting. After 500 witnesses, 2,500 subpoenas, every single person I know, practically, was called in one form of another -- nothing. And Ill tell you what: Even with you people -- youre honest people -- none of you could have withstood that.
They would have found something. If there was a comma put in the wrong place, if there was period in the wrong location, they would have grabbed it. No collusion. No obstruction. After that, its almost -- its amazing. You know what it shows? It shows Im a very honest guy.
So China -- so well see what happens. Theyre talking to us. They want to make a deal. But we had a deal, and they broke it. They broke the deal. They shouldnt have broken it. I think if they had it to do again, they wouldnt. Because, right now, we put very big tariffs on, and we have a lot more to put on if we want.
But China broke a deal. We are talking to them. Well see what happens.
Well see what happens with Iran. Iran has to be very, very careful.
Say it.
Youll know in about two weeks. There was a very -- a very interesting problem that they had in New Hampshire. And I cant tell you about it. It was a very -- but it had nothing to do with White House. There was a problem up there. And I wont go into what the problem was, but youll see in about a week or two.
The southern border is being policed very well by Mexico. Mexico is doing far more than the Democrats -- we all know it -- because of tariffs, but theyve been great. Theyve put 6,000 people. They have many of them there now on the southern border -- their southern border. On our southern border, which is the main border that you think of, theyre going to have anywhere between 16,000 and 21,000 troops.
Its had a big effect. Theyve only been there for about a week, where they actually had the troops. But its had a tremendous effect, tremendous impact. And youll see the numbers starting to come in very well. Guatemala is going to be signing a safe third agreement. Were talking to Mexico. But Mexico is really doing a good job, I have to say.
Very -- very big . But heres the thing: When people come in illegally, and then its crowded -- and Ive seen some of those places, and they are run beautifully. Theyre clean. Theyre good. They do a great job.
They do a great job. Theyre crowded because the Democrats will not give us any relief from these loopholes. We have loopholes that are so bad. We have asylum thats so bad. So these places are -- many of them; not all of them, but many of them -- theyre incredible. Theyre really well run. Ill tell you what, and I said it yesterday: Border Patrol did not train to be doctors and nurses and janitors.
Thats not what they trained to be. They trained to be Border Patrol. And thats what theyre doing, and theyre doing a phenomenal job. Because of the country, because were doing so well as a country -- we never -- weve never done this well. Two days ago, we hit the highest stock market number weve ever had in the history of our country.
Our country is doing great. Unemployment is very low. We just came out with 224,000 new jobs. The numbers are unbelievable. And thats bringing people up like theyve never come up. Border Patrol and ICE have done a great job. Now, people are being removed from the country. Were removing them. Were starting with the MS-13. Weve taken out thousands of MS-13 and gangs.
But weve never had an onslaught -- and the reason they came up is because -- and they come up -- is because the country is doing well. They want jobs.
I think they do great job with those facilities. But do you know how it should be taken care of? Number one: Tell them not to come because its illegal. Very unfair to people that have been waiting on line for seven or eight years, and theyre about to be admitted, and theyve studied and they know the country and the history and everything, and then a person comes in -- walks in -- and, all of the sudden, theyve become a citizen or theyre allowed to stay.
So thousands and thousands of people will be legally removed from the country, and that process has started. And weve actually been doing that for a long time.
Well, that I dont know because I dont run it. But I would say this: Probably every club in the United States has that because it seems to be, from what I understand, a way that people did business. But weve ended -- whatever they did, we have a very strict rule that -- those rules are very strict.
But it seems that every club, practically, in the United States -- thats the way they did business.
Well, I havent seen it. I will say this: I think that the Border Patrol has been treated very, very badly by certain members of Congress -- very, very badly. For the most part, theyre very respected by Congress, but certain members of Congress say very bad things and lie and exaggerate. And Border Patrol people are tough people; theyre not happy about it.
I just spoke with the Attorney General. We have a number of different avenues. We could use all of them or one. Were doing very well on that issue. Were spending 15 to 20 billion dollars on a census. Were doing everything; were finding out everything about everybody. Think of it: 15 to 20 billion dollars, and youre not allowed to ask them, "Are you a citizen?"
And, by the way, if you look at the history of our country, its almost always been asked. So were looking -- were fighting very hard against a system thats a very difficult system. But well make a decision. The Attorney General is working on that right now.
Well, you need it for many reasons. Number one, you need it for --
-- Congress. You need it for Congress, for districting. You need it for appropriations. Where are the funds going? How many people are there? are they citizens? are they not citizens? You need it for many reasons.
What?
I thought Ivanka was amazing at the G20. And Ill tell you, the foreign leaders loved her, and they just think shes great. Shes very smart, and shes done a great job. She sacrificed a lot. Ivanka and Jared work very hard, and they sacrificed a lot to be doing this, but they want to do it. Ivanka has worked on almost 10 million jobs -- training, and going to companies, and getting them to hire people.
But the people -- the foreign leaders -- really like her a lot.
Im not grooming her for office. No.
Well, as you know, President Obama had separation. President Obama, in 2014, built the cells that you always show on television. They were built -- they were built by President Obama. But he had separation. The one thing he didnt have is a good economy, so he didnt have the kind of onslaught that were having.
We have a tremendous onslaught on people. Who can blame them? They want to get in; they want to take advantage of the economy. But they have to come in -- they have to come in legally and through merit. I think this: Border Patrol has done an incredible job and Mexico has been doing an incredible job.
Yeah, it is. Wilbur is a good man. Look, a lot of people thought his answer was fine; I didnt see the answer yet. They thought it was fine. It could be expanded, very simply. There are many reasons that you do it. But, you know, we were surprised by that decision. Citizenship has been on that thing most of the time for many, many years.
So its very shocking that, after spending $15 billion, its not on.
No, no. Tell Biden that NATO has taken total advantage of him and President Obama. They took it -- we were paying for almost all of NATO. Were protecting countries. Those countries have to protect themselves with us. They have to make a contribution. In my first year, I raised over $100 billion from those countries.
Biden didnt know what the hell he was doing and neither did President Obama. NATO was taking advantage of -- now theyre paying. They still owe us a lot of money. Biden doesnt know about that. He just thinks, stupidly, we do. NATO is fine, but they have to pay their way. The United States is not going to get killed on trade with Europe.
Europe kills us on trade, which were changing, and Europe then kills us because we defend Europe. And we lose a tremendous amount of money, but we lose on trade and the military. President Obama and Vice President Biden, they didnt have a clue. They got taken advantage of by China, by NATO, by every country they did business with.
I dont know that Ill be able.
No, Im -- I hope they do well. I hope they win.
He called Kim Jong Un on numerous occasions to meet. President Obama wanted to meet with Kim Jong Un. And Kim Jong Un said no. Numerous occasions he called. And right now, we have a very nice relationship. Weve done a lot. And weve gotten -- weve gotten our hostages back. Were getting the remains back.
