Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Denver, CO|July 1, 2016
Thank you very much, everybody. Oh, if I knew they had these teleprompters, I would have used them. Im starting to love those teleprompters. You know its interesting. Its much easier when you have a teleprompter and Im getting great reviews with the teleprompters. When you stand up and you just go at it. Its much more exciting.
However, I want to tell you. I think, I think this crowd -- I know, I know the folks from Colorado and theyre wild. I think if I use the teleprompter with this crowd theyd be out of here fast and say lets get out of here. So I just want to thank – this a tremendous crowd. We really appreciate the set-up pretty quickly well.
So Colorado --  taught me a lot about politics. I learned a lot because polls came out that I was going to win Colorado and doing really well in Colorado and look good and I was looking forward to it. And then all of a sudden I didnt get the delegates as yet. But what happened to the vote? Do you remember?
And I started to learn, you know, quick learner. Im a quick learner but that was an amazing week. You remember that and we had some of you folks, probably.
Were out there with a little picketing and a little craziness. And I think that probably ended up changing. I think theyre going to change it next year and I think youre going to go out and actually vote. And -- And thats a good thing. Thats a good thing. So you see whats happening. And I always say the systems rigged.
Its rigged and its rigged against the people. Its not rigged for the special interests and the lobbyists and people that want certain things. I used to be one of them. Once they said Im running all of a sudden. I was like an outsider, a big outsider. But Im glad I get it because you know what we have?
We have a movement going on like they havent seen maybe ever in this country. According to what the pundits are saying.
And I tell -- I tell the story where numerous people. Bill OReilly, not so long ago, a few weeks ago said, "It may be the single greatest political phenomena that Ive seen in my lifetime." Hes talking about his lifetime. And I said, "Wow, thats a lot of phenomena as youve seen but numerous other people have said it too.
And here, we stand and there you stand and sit. "Oh youre able to sit. Thats good. See, we supplied chairs. How many people do that nobody else supplies chairs? Nobody else does that. Only Trump. Only Trump. Thats good. These lights are so bright I can hardly see whos that. Thats a good crowd of people.
Wow, thats great. And thank you. Thank you very much.
But the system is rigged. And you know, we went through the primary system and we did have problems here because you know it wasnt a vote and somebody said I did really well in the polls and as soon as they saw how well I did in the polls they went to a delegate system where they just appoint the delegates and its all right.
It all worked out well. It all worked out well. You know what? ? In the end it doesnt matter. Here we are. It doesnt matter and you have some terrific people in the state, very smart, very good. And theyre going to really be helping us in November and before November. But I know, I know how hard theyre working in Colorado and were going to -- were going to have tremendous -- I think were gonna have a tremendous victory here.
A couple of things before I -- before I really -- before I really get going. Colorado, NRA theyre like synonymous.
The NRA endorsed me. Were going to save you Second Amendment, a 100%. Were saving you Second Amendment and I have to tell you, the NRA, these are terrific people. Theyre terrific people. They love the country and they take a lot of heat and they dont have the easiest job. I will tell you but they love the country.
Wayne and Chris and all of the other people Ive met from the NRA and they gave me, I think, the earliest endorsement theyve ever given under these circumstances and they gave me a very early endorsement. I was very honored by it. But Ive gotten to know them and they love our country OK. They love the Second Amendment but they love our country.
So you have to remember that about the NRA because what they do is not easy. Its not easy and theyre saving the Second Amendment for you. So just remember that and Im going to be representing them very well in that regard.
The other that we have to talk about is the evangelicals have been so amazing to me. We had an event the other day in New York, right? And evangelicals in the room and evangelicals but we had an event. And Ben Carson called me who was a great guy. We love Ben Carson. And he called and he said, "You know Donald Id love you to get with the evangelical leaders and Christian Leaders all throughout the United States." Not a big deal.
Itll take you maybe 15 or 20 minutes but maybe you could see them and maybe you know I think its a good thing for you to do. Now Ive won with evangelicals in many, many other states in South Carolina and Nevada. And like all over the place weve had great, great success. The South Alabama, Arkansas all of them.
And weve had unbelievable relationships and unbelievable success. But Ben wanted me to do it. As you know, when Ben got out and he did really well. He was tough. He was a great competitor. He did really, really well when he ran and he got out. And he called me and he said, "You know, I love whats going on. You have a movement going on. This isnt like a normal thing.
Theres a movement. I would love to endorse you. I said, "Ben, I would love to have your endorsement." Plenty of people are calling, saying, "We want to endorse you and its never been that important to me."
I will say this. Bobby Knight in Indiana was important, right. Great Bobby Knight was important. But they said, "I said Id love to endorse you." Then he comes up and he goes, "You know Id love to meet." Now its not a big deal. Maybe 150, maybe 200 people and they could be here in a month in New York but it would be a great thing.
So all of a sudden the time comes and my people come in they say, "Mr. Trump you wont believe it. Its packed." I said, "Ill believe it because its always packed." But the largest group of clergy ministers, pastors, evangelicals, Christians, the largest group theyve ever had by far over a thousand and they wanted to know, "Could we take two to three hours?"
So this was the 50. Ben is one of the greatest salesmen I know, right? He said small group, fifteen minutes. Turned out to be a large group. Three hours but it was an amazing event. It was an amazing and I learned. But it was just an incredible group of people. Franklin Graham was there and Jerry Falwell Jr., from Liberty College is a fantastic guy and so many people.
Friends, real friends. Ralph Reed, weve had so many friends and people that have really been helpful to me and as an example, a Liberty College. Everybody goes through Liberty College and we all make a speech at one of the most beautiful auditoriums. One of the most beautiful colleges Ive ever seen actually.
And one of the most incredible auditoriums and it holds at 1,000 people something like that. And I have the all-time record for attendance which is really important. I got that two years ago and I said, "Is it still intact?" I said, "Yes. And I broke it this time." I said, "Good. Thats good." And they had closed circuit television because the room was too small even as big as it was in all the classrooms all over the school.
They had closed circuit television and we had an amazing time. And to get the support and everybody went there. I think every candidate went there. And because of what it represents, such importance and what happened is in the end Jerry calls. He says, "You know, I want to endorse you." And that had such a huge impact because hes so respected.
The school is so respected, the college, the university. So respected and getting Jerrys support was such a great thing for me.
So I just wanted to thank him. But I wanted to thank everybody because that was an amazing day. We had about a week ago in New York City. It was packed and it was full of love. I will tell you that. It was full of love. So well talk for a little while about whats going on. Im going to tell you some of the ideas that we want to have.
I wrote down some notes in the plane because -- because I didnt know I had this last standing up here. It says right now, "No.1, No. 2" is a statement for me. I want to thank Sarah Palin for being here because Sarah, Sarah is -- well Sarah -- Sarah is a special person and Sarahs another one where it came out of the blue and she liked what I was saying and she was also close with many of the other people that were running.
And the word came back to me that Sarah was very interested and we called her and I can tell you they were very very disappointed people that I was running against on the Republican side, Im talking about and they were very, very disappointed. When Sarah -- when Sarah came out for me, Ill tell you that was a -- that was a big event.
And shes so loyal and so amazing and her family is so amazing her husbands an incredible guy. And for her to come here again and to say hello to you folks is just really something special. So I really appreciate that Sarah Palin was able to come. So I wrote some notes there. Sarah has a big group. We do love Sarah, right?
Look at that. Wow. Im not -- Im not surprised. For good reason.
By the way. So I want to give you some of the goals just quickly and easily and youll understand what they are. But you know the other night on television, I was looking and certainly terrorisms actually number two. I was surprised itll probably be number one pretty soon because whats going on today in Israel there was a horrible killing and then there was another horrible killing in Oregon and there was another one.
I mean its going -- whats going on now is unbelievable. People that shouldnt be allowed in. People that shouldnt be here and were going to have strong borders, folks. Got to have strong borders.
Were gonna have the wall and were going to let people come into our country that should come into our country and theyre going to come into our country legally. Theyre to come in legally and we want them to come in. But theyre going to come into our country legally. But one of the things I noticed because it was on one of the networks where they had him listed in order and actually they had the economy number one and Im number one on the economy.
Thats good. And in fact Rasmussen just came out with a poll yesterday afternoon and Trump is No.1. Im up four points. Can you believe that? Were going to do very well. Were going to have you know in the primaries one after one being bing! bong! bing. And people have said what happened is one after another.
And you know we have the right message and Im just the messenger. Im doing a good job as a messenger. I will say, "OK but Im just the messenger."
Its what Im saying. Its what Im saying about whats going on. And its getting stronger. I think the message is getting stronger. Were being destroyed by trade which well talk about. Were being destroyed at our borders which well talk about and were allowing people to come into our country from Syria and other places that shouldnt be allowed to come into our country.
We have no idea who they are, where theyre from. We have no idea whats going on. They have no paperwork. They have no documentation. They could be ISIS. I used to say theyre probably not. But now I say many of them probably are.
You see whats happening in Germany. You see whats happening in Sweden. You see whats happening in some of these countries where theyre taking them in. Its a nightmare. And I have a bigger heart than anybody or as big as anybody in this room and I will tell you, I will tell you were going to do. Were going to do safe zones in Syria.
Were going to get other people to pay for them. The Gulf states have a lot of money. People dont ask them to pay. Trump is going to ask them to pay given the fact and well get it done. Believe me. Well get it done. So one thing I just wanted to say, were going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Health care was the third, was third on the list.
And honestly I was surprised to see health care on this list. It was the economy. It was terrorism and it was health care which tells you something. You know in Texas they go through BlueCross, BlueShield. They had a 60% increase. Youre going to have an increase like youve never seen before November 1st. Now, theyre trying to delay the increase till after the election.
We cant let that happen because this increase is an election-changing increase.
I hope we dont need -- we dont even need them. But this is an election-changing increase that youre going to get. Im hearing numbers like higher than the numbers in Texas. So 60% in Texas going through BlueCross, BlueShield. You got the Obamacare 60% increase. Think of it. Think of it. Unimaginable. Well, its also horrible because your premiums are going up. Your deductibles are through the roof.
And unless you die a really, really severe long-term death, youre not going to use it because your deductibles are so high. Your deductibles are through the roof. And people dont even get to use it. So theyre paying more than ever and they dont get to use it. And were going to change that. Were going to repeal and replace Obamacare and were going to get something so much better.
And so much less expensive.
OK. I already talked about the fact were going to save the Second Amendment, right? Thats a biggie. Were going to eliminate job-killing regulations. Our regulations in this country are killing us. Were going to have massive tax reform and simplification. A big lowering of the taxes, the biggest of anybody by far.
Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes. Shes raising your taxes substantially and there wont be simplification. Were lowering your taxes. You watch whats going to happen with the economy. Were lowering your taxes, big league and tremendous simplification. Were lowering business taxes. Were going to allow money.
We have trillions of dollars outside of the United States owned by really the corporations have this money. They cant get it back into the country. And everybody agrees Republicans Democrats that it should come back in. They cant make a deal. Thats a deal that would take five minutes sitting around a room but nobody is -- theres no leadership.
So we have trillions of dollars. Who would not want to make that deal?
They say two and a half trillion. I say its over five trillion but whatever it is, its massive and companies corporate inversion companies are leaving the United States because taxes are too high. But theyre also leaving to get their money. They cant get their money back in so they leave to get their money.
So its crazy. Were going to appoint Supreme Court justices who youre going to be very happy with. Such a big thing and these are justices that will uphold the Constitution of the United States and fully uphold it. And you know whats going to happen and I sort of get a kick. You have these people. Look it was a tough campaign.
It was a brutal campaign. Some of the people that do this professionally said it was the most brutal campaign in the history of politics in this country. I dont know if thats true or not. But we started off with 17 people and there were a lot of bad things said and there was one person that came out and I understand, you know, I understand but they were really nasty to me and I was really nasty to them.
And some of them just cant understand the importance of a victory for the Republicans. And one of the best things we can say are the judges because you know we can talk about the strong military. Were going to do all of the things but the judges, were going to appoint at least three. You have Scalia who is great and hes, "Who wouldve thought that was going to happen?" That was going to be for many years and all of a sudden Justice Scalia was gone.
So you have that one before you start. And then you probably have two more. You could even have three and you could even have four more. I mean frankly, a lot probably going to be a record and a history of this country for a president could have as many as you could have including Justice Scalia. You could have as many as five.
Probably well have three.
But thats the difference between having our country as a great country and having Venezuela, OK? And you see whats happening over there. Believe me. Theyre fighting over loaves of bread on the street. I mean thats a tremendous thing. And what I did because Ive only been doing this for 12 months. So what Ive done?
In fact they said one of the articles had it was 211 years of experience. You know they ended up everybody there, 211 years versus 11 months. And look who won. Is that good? I mean dont we get credits? I think experience is a great thing. But I think were getting tired of the experience because the experience was a work -- working folks, right?
But because of the fact that I havent been out there as a politician. People know me but I havent been out there as a politician. A lot of people have said to me. Senator Sessions, who is a fantastic man and others they said, "It wouldnt be bad." and I actually went in with the idea because I was getting criticized.
They said, "Well, what happens if he appoints judges that we dont like?"
So I went to the Federalist Society which is sort of the gold standard. Now Hillary Clinton said the gold standard of trade deals is TPP. Now shes taken that back. You saw that, right? When you mentioned TPP, will destroy you, folks. It will destroy you. Itll take any vestige that we still have left in our country.
It will destroy you. And she said it now. What happened is when she heard me being very critical of it. She realized I was right. So she said now shes against it but shes going to approve it in two seconds if she ever won. And that will be as bad or worse than NAFTA which was by the way signed by her husband, OK? So obviously, I went out and I said youre not going to do. Im going to pick 10 judges or 11 judges and well see what happens.
And I picked 11 gotten from the Federalist Society run through by a lot of great politicians that I know that are highly respected senators and congressmen and great people and loved. Went through Heritage was great.
Jim DeMint and the group whos a great guy, Jim is a great guy. We like Jim. Listen to you people. Wow. He is a great guy. We ran him through Heritage and these are 11 people. I think Im going to pick four more so Im 15 and Ill pick from that list. Or people like that. Exactly. And we dont have great judges and it had a big impact.
But you still have people out there and its just one of those things. You know one of the things Im most proud about is that in the history of the Republican party with 17 people running I had the most votes of anybody thats ever run in the primaries.
We had almost 14 million people. Won 37 states. Next time its going to be Colorado by the way. Colorado is not in that 37. Dont worry if it was. Ill still be here today. But -- but we had 37 states and we had the largest number of votes. Now when you think about it almost 14 million votes and it wasnt even close.
Ronald Reagan who we love, you have the Bushes, you have Dwight Eisenhower, Richard Nixon. Everybody you know, everybody just so much more than anybody else wasnt even close. But think of it . They would run against two people, one person, four people. When you break that record and youre running against 17 very capable people, thats really a record that is pretty amazing.
More amazing than even just one. So I was very I was very honored by that.
Were going to protect our country from terrorism. Were going to protect our country from terrorist. We are going to be so tough. We are going to be so smart and so vigilant and were going to get it so that people turn in people when they know theres something going on. Like in San Bernardino people saw bombs all over these peoples floors.
There are bombs all over the floor. Hey George, people saw it and they talked about racial profiling and profiling. We didnt want to turn them in because we didnt want to get accused of profiling. Give me a break. You know what that is. Thats a lawyer telling them listen you better say that because otherwise youre in big trouble.
But people have to turn people in and if they dont turn in were gonna have so many of these things. What happened in Orlando is disgraceful. Disgraceful that a thing like that can happen and then they dont want to mention what happened. We have a president that doesnt want to mention what really happened.
Its called. Radical Islamic terrorism, right? Thats what happened. And you have crooked Hillary Clinton that didnt want to mention it either. But we shamed her into it. But she still hasnt mentioned it. She said I will say. And then she didnt quite use the expression the way it should be. But I will say.
Radical Islam. I will say it.
OK. But shes never said it. She said she will say because we shamed her into it just like we shamed her into going against TPP. Was that the only reason she didnt do it? Shell do it but not for the election because people are sick and tired of being ripped off with our jobs leaving our states with our jobs, leaving our country with the money.
They get the money. They get the jobs. We get nothing. We get unemployment. Thats where we go. We get unemployment and no taxes. And folks we can solve that situation so easily. That situation is so easily solved. Ive been watching for a long time and Ive been watching it very, very closely how the government is trying to stop jobs from leaving our country.
I left yesterday in New Hampshire where I see building after building just got wiped out. New England, one of the worst places in terms of that upstate New York, a disaster. Pennsylvania, a disaster. Maryland, Connecticut, all states that I won in massive numbers when I had a series of states five or six states in a row where I was been devastated.
Tremendous. We had an eye.
But I mean much, much tighter so were going to win what? Colorado! We got to win then go to Illinois. Im going to spend time in Illinois. Going to spend a lot of time in Michigan. I think well get a win. Ive been talking about cars moving to Mexico. Car companies, Ford, moving to Mexico for two years.
Long before I even knew wed be in this position. Nobody has been better to the state of Michigan and to the car industry than me in terms of what Im saying and what Im going to do to get the car companies back No.1 and to keep them from moving because theyre going to continue to move like youve never seen before.
If I dont win were going to have job-loss like you have never seen ever before. If I dont win. So I think were going to play great in Michigan. Even in Connecticut there was a poll that came out. This is a state that I love. I have so many friends that live in Connecticut.
But this is a state that a Republican, a traditional Republican would never spend one afternoon in terms of getting votes. And Im going to spend a lot of time in Connecticut and we may even give a shot to New York and California because we have tremendous guys. Were getting 30 to 35,000 people going to these place so were going to -- were going to play -- were going to play in a lot of states that normally, obviously Ohio and Pennsylvania and Florida.
Those are your states that everybody says, "You have to win. You have to win.!" But I think we have a lot more leeway than anybody else running for office from the Republican Party. And I think were going to do great in these places. We want to uphold, totally uphold the rule of law not being upheld. Nothing, OK. We want to cut down on the unbelievable crime thats pouring in and the crime rate generally, OK? We want to keep our children safe.
We want to keep ourselves safe.
But we have to -- we have to so many friends of mine. Jamiel, as an example. Shaw, his son was killed by a person that came into this country. An illegal immigrant should have never ever been here. Kate, as you remember from San Francisco, shot viciously by somebody that was sent out of the country five times and will probably get off.
I see the lawyer in there saying, "Oh, maybe it wasnt him." Enough. Its terrible. It will go on for years and years and years. What happened to Kate and so many others, so many others and were going to have a country where we can be free to walk around and free to walk the streets and free to look at the beautiful Golden Gate bridge with your father, like Kate was doing, and then shot from nowhere.
Were going to have a country thats going to be safe again. Just remember that were going to have a country thats gonna be safer. Were not going to play games. Were not going to be politically correct perhaps. But were going to have a country thats going to be safe. Were gonna make our government so important, responsible to the people not to the special interests.
The special interests controlled your government, folks, the special interests. I mean, you see what happened today where Bill Clinton goes in the other day into an airplane. Just happened to be "Oh just a coincidence." You know. He just happened to be at the airport at this time. Think of it. Just happened to be at the airport.
You know when I first heard the story, I said, "No, no youre kidding. I dont believe it." I thought somebody was joking but its not a joke. Its not a joke. Its a very serious thing. And to have a thing like that happen, its so sad. And as you know, Hillary is so guilty. Shes so guilty. I mean you can read them right off here and how thats not being pursued properly.
And I think that he really -- I think he really opened it up. He opened up a Pandoras box and it shows whats going on. And it shows whats happening with our laws and with our government. But if you think that he just happened to be at the airport because nobody really and he may have and honestly, he may have left and gone someplace.
But it seems like hes talking about golf and grandchildren. I love my grandchildren so much but if I talk about him for more than about nine or 10 seconds, you know.
What do I love? My grandchildren. I love that one, I love that one, I love, love, love that when I look at them, beautiful. I love these kids. After that, what do you have to say, right? I love those kids. Theyre -- theyre great. I love -- I love my children. I love my children. My children are going to be speaking at the convention.
My children are going to be speaking. Ivanka, Tiffany, Don, Erica theyre going to be speaking. My wife is going to be speaking at the convention and were going to have -- were going to have a great time. And then you have to talk about golf for the rest of the time.
And you know, I love golf that after talking for a couple of minutes, its hard to talk about it much longer than. And above all well, were going to do so important. Were going to put America first. I have to say it. We dont put America first.
We dont put -- we dont put America first and we have to. So when we look at whats going on in our country and when we see all of the mistakes that are being made and we see all of the corruption and all of the horrendous politicians. By the way I have to tell you, some great politicians too. Ive met some people that are great people.
These are great people and they love the country and theyre there for the right reasons. But you made so many that arent. You just meet so many, that arent. And we do deal in a rigged system to rigged system. And I learned so much during the primaries. I won as an example. I won in New Orleans. I went to make a speech.
Louisiana, I was in New Orleans, made a speech. I then went into Louisiana, float -- flew into the airport in Louisiana. There was this massive hangar and it was the night before the election and I gave a speech and it was just great.
We had so many thousands and thousands of people at the airport. The hangar was packed. It was a massive room probably three times, four times bigger than this room. It was packed and that was the night before the election. I said, "How could I lose? How can I lose?" And I didnt lose. I won and I wasnt expected to win.
You know I won a lot of things that I wasnt expected to do and I won easily. But I won. And everything was good. And then about two weeks later, theyre showing delegate counts to me. "Sir you did this, you did this, you did that." Its good. What about this one? Thats wrong. Because I won that state, right?
Yes sir, you did. But I have less delegates than the people that lost and thats when I realized its rigged folks. Its rigged. But I got smart fast, I got smart fast. I mean, I got smart very fast.
And one of the things that were going to focus on and were going to focus on more than almost anything. Because you know, look, we need safety. We need borders. Were going to have the wall. Were building the wall and the wall is necessary and were gonna have a great relationship with Mexico. Itll going to be very important but weve got to build a wall.
Mexicos going to pay for the wall. You understand that? No, no theyre going to face civil war and were going to have trade and were gonna have lots of good things happen with Mexico. Mexico doesnt like us right now. Mexico doesnt respect our leaders. Remember Sergeant temporarily remember they couldnt get him out of prison.
Right. Gretta was very helpful. I think I was helpful. At least I helped them. But -- but couldnt get him out and he was there for a long time. Long, long time in one of the meanest, worst prisons in the world. They say horrible place.
We couldnt get him out. Should have gotten him out. Im not sure the president even made a phone call. I will tell you something when things like that happen if Im president. I know they say, "Oh its not presidential. You shouldnt do that." But things like that happen. If Im president, I promise you Ill be making phone calls.
Folks, Im going to be over. Im not -- Im not really sure that he ever even made a phone call. Certainly there was no rush. Its sort of like the horrible deal that we made with Iran. Iran has become a power. We have made over the last few years over between Hillary Clinton and John Kerry who made it. Was one of the worst negotiators Ive ever seen.
How about he goes out and breaks his leg in a bicycle race. Can you believe this? Hes in the middle of negotiating with you and hes got all this stuff on. Hes got all deal, all the companies, all deal, the element got everything gone. I promise you, I swear to you. I will never be in a bicycle race during a major negotiation.
Never. Never.
But how about that deal? And if you look. Iran was a country that was in deep trouble. They were doing badly and then we took the sanctions off. We should have never taken the sanctions off before we finished the deal. We took the sanctions off before you know why theyre great negotiators they said we will not negotiate unless you take the sanctions off and our guys said, "OK thats what they said." And when they said that, why didnt we say, "We want our prisoners back" OK, because our prisoners were there for years after that saga.
So its like 101 Trump: The Art of the Deal. right? 101, we say OK and we took the sanctions off. If we got nothing for that they agreed to sit down. They were dying. They were choking. And instead of saying, "Well take the sanctions off." But theres two things. Number one, youve got to release the prisoners right now.
Number two, were not going to give you $150 million back.
OK, were not giving and theyre going to say, "No way, no way." You know theyre great negotiators. The Persians are great negotiators. Theyre going to say, "No way." in a million years. "No way." Then you leave. Kerry never got up and left, right? Never got up and left. Then you leave and by the time you get back to the United States, dont even get off the plane.
Its going to turn around and go back. Youll have your prisoners and you wont have to pay the 150 billion back. So sad because Im all for making deals. I think its great to make deals and nuclear is a good thing, not a bad thing. But you got to make good deals. This is a deal thats ruinous to Israel in my opinion.
I think this deal is a disaster, a disaster for us. But its a disaster and even a bigger disaster for Israel.
So, were going to have great deals made. Were going to make smart deals if you think about it. So you had Iran which was choking, which had no, I mean there were literally going to bust up. I mean they were at a point where they were going to remember the riots and then Obama gave the regime solace and they just took care of those riots so easily.
There was a time when they could have all change. It could have all change. So instead we have a power, a real power thats fighting us. How about we make a deal there in Yemen were fighting them in Yemen. We make a deal but we dont make a deal we dont talk about Yemen. And when asked about why we didnt discuss Yemen because were fighting Iran on the other side.
Were going to like this. Well, why didnt you put that into the deal? And Kerry said it was too complicated. Lets complicate whats complicated. We give it all this stuff away and theyll have nuclear weapons. They could buy nuclear weapons with the money there. Theyd become a real power and now theyre on the side of Assad.
And you know that whole debate well have to talk about because you know I disagree with a lot of the things that a lot of people have been saying about the Middle East and about what were doing.
You know its very interesting. We spent tremendous, tremendous, tremendous amounts of money protecting other nations that are very, very wealthy, Japan, Germany, Saudi Arabia, South Korea. We spend money. In South Korea we have 28,000 soldiers on the line between them and the madmen, right? We have 28,000. Every time he acts up we start sending our ships, our planes, our boats so that you know, you turn on one of those ships and cost you $2 million.
I would say, "Dont turn on the engine. Save the money. Dont, dont please." The captain would say, "Sir would you like to hear the engine?" Id say, if it was me, Id say, "No, no, no, no, no just save the money. Relax the engines fine." But its true its true. I mean thats what they -- its a different thinking, right?
A lot of business people and its a different thing. Theres so much waste. Theres so much fraud. Theres so much abuse. So we spend all of this money and I dont want to see them armed. Ideally, I dont want to see them. But you always have to be prepared to walk like Kerry should have walked with her and he should have walked and then he should have said, "Double up the sanctions." And believe me youll be back there within two days.
All right. And most of that flying time. Now, thats what he said. But you have to be prepared to walk. He never walks. OK. So he never won. So what happened with Kerry and what happens with all of us is we have the wrong people. We have the greatest negotiators in the world, anywhere in the world were the greatest negotiators but we dont use them.
We use political hacks. So with Germany, with Japan, with Saudi Arabia, which has nothing but money, if we werent protecting Saudi Arabia -- Turkey. Are you from Turkey? Sure. Good. Congratulations. I actually have a very nice job in Turkey, Zain. Please mention Turkey. OK, I think hes friend. Are you friend or foe?
I think hes friend. But its true. Turkey. I do. We have investments in Turkey. I have investments in a lot of different places. But I will tell you and Turkey by the way should be fighting ISIS. I hope to see Turkey go out and fight ISIS because ISIS has in a certain sense, taken very serious advantage of Turkey.
Theyve taken advantage. And Turkey has a tremendously powerful military and they could wipe ISIS out by themselves. I would love to see that how why would we love to see that? because it looks like it was ISIS that did all the damage in the airport. That was Turkey. So I think Turkey is all of a sudden going to change and say thats enough for this.
And Turkey has the power to do it and they have the power to do it all by themselves. They could do it and they could do it pretty swiftly too. So with all of these countries we pay for the military, big portions, big portions disproportionately. So I said we have to get them to pass.
And I have a very good plan. I was right on NATO. You know when I first gave my -- when they asked me about NATO and I first said my statement, "Its obsolete and they dont cover terrorism like they should." And on top of that the countries of NATO arent paying what theyre supposed to be paying. It was on television.
Everyone smile. Oh, thats so funny. Funny, like a joke. Funny. Then about four days later they said, "You know Trump was sort of right. You have these people that study NATO but theyre so close to it." Hes so totally close that they cant see the forest for the trees. Does that make sense? So about four days later they said , "You know I said NATO is obsolete.
And they dont study. They dont have terrorism the way it should have. Everything had the right countries for terrorism, actually but they dont have terrorism as a big thing. And were paying for so much and a lot of these countries arent paying what theyre supposed to be paying. Many of them. So were protecting all these countries.
Theyre not even paying us what theyre supposed to be paying. And thats too little. So I made that statement and Im telling you for three or four days it was like, "Donald Trump doesnt –"
Now Im not saying Im an expert in that or what. I never -- nobody ever asked me about NATO before but I have a lot of common sense and I have a lot of business sense. I built this great company. I built an unbelievable company. I have businesses. So three or four days later all of a sudden they start saying, "You know what, Trump just said makes a lot of sense to me now." So two weeks ago I pick up the Wall Street Journal and then the front page of The Wall Street Journal headline NATO: To Develop New Unit for Terrorism.
So what I told and then it announced. "One of the top people in the world" It is NATO, right? "But one of the top people to be put in charge."
OK, I said, thats what I said. Now my name was mentioned in the bottom. They said, "Donald Trump complained." Oh great. I didnt complain. I said NATO is obsolete because that didnt mean abandoned NATO didnt mean anything. Either you fix or you have to develop something having to do with terrorism but its obsolete.
We have a different world today than we had 40 years ago and 60 years ago we have a different world. Even the Soviet Union is now Russia. But lets say Russias damn strong so leave it for that. But you know what. Its a different world and I see things that a lot of people dont. I said take the oil. You shouldnt. I also said dont go into Iraq.
Its a big mistake. Youre going to destabilize the Middle East. But I also said dont go out the way. We went out. We just went out.
President Obama announced were going to be up by a certain date. The only thing deceptive about that was the enemy said, "Nobody would have said." So I dont think they believed it. And then the date happened. We left and you know this all led to the formation of ISIS and lots of other things. But I said when you go out, take the oil, right?
How long have I been saying that ? For years! And you know on television I say before I did that they said, "What is your plan." What is a plan? I said I dont want to really say because I have a really good chance of being elected. I dont want to talk about it. You know General Patton didnt sit on television and say, "Lets see on July 16th, were going to attack ISIS from behind.
Where theyre going to knock out a battalion over here and were going to drop so many bombs at this quadrant and were going to go – heres my plan." and by the way everything, you ever notice, everything we do, its always hard because we always have to say. So I say to the television people I dont really tell you I was -- Im on Bill OReilly the other night.
I should feel I dont want to really talk about it. Believe me I know what Im going to do when I knock the hell out of ISIS. I dont want to really too much shock about it. But heres the problem. Youve got to get elected. So you got to talk about it. Its a little defective. You gotta get elected. So you got to talk about it. So I said Id go in with NATO and Id make them or do something and I go in and it also get all of the countries around there that are really involved that have to be involved.
And I go and you got to clean it up because these people are chopping off heads. Theyre drowning people. Were not allowed to waterboard, right. We cant waterboard.
Theyre allowed to chop off heads. Theyre allowed to drown people. I said the other day when they go home and theyre together and they just chopped off 50 heads, drowned two hundred people and then they say in the United States they dont allow waterboarding. They think we are so stupid. They think we are so weak.
They have no respect for us, whatsoever. And remember this. The only thing they understand is strength. They dont understand kindness. They dont understand political correctness. The only thing they understand is strength and toughness and were weak. Were weak and Hillary is weak as you get. Hillary is a weak person.
Shes a weak person. They will not understand Hillary. They want her to get in so badly. The last person they want to see become president of the United States, believe me, is Donald Trump. I can tell you that. I was the last person. They have dreams at night and their dreams are that Hillary Clinton becomes president of our country.
Believe me. So we need to show toughness. We need to show strength. We have to level the playing field. We dont have a level playing field. We dont fight to win anymore. We dont win anymore.
We dont win with the economy. We got China ripping us off. We have Japan ripping us off. We have Mexico beating us at the border. Beating us on trade, taking all of our companies. I mean theyre taking tremendous numbers of companies. Its unbelievable. I think one of the reasons I won in Indiana is that the air conditioning company Carrier announced they were leaving.
Theyre going to fire 1,400 people who went to my speeches. They were -- they were all over the place.
Every time I was here from Korea, all these hands would be raised. Fourteen hundred people fired viciously and stupidly because Carrier was moving and theyre from Indianapolis. Carrier was moving to Mexico. I think it had a huge because I won. You remember that was gonna be the firewall for the other people that were running against me and it was a firewall for me. I won with a landslide.
Right now having Bobby Knight helped a lot but I will tell you they and New York and New England and every place, Pennsylvania, Big league, we have our companies leaving, so that happens.
Were going to stop that. Were going to stop that call and were going to be so strong and were going to be so smart and were going to start winning again. Were going to start winning like we have never won before. We dont win anymore as a country. We dont win for our vets. Were going to take care of our vets by the way.
We dont win for our vets. We dont win for anything. We dont win for our pride. We dont win anymore and its going to stop. Were going to be victorious in so many different ways. As an example, Common Core were bringing our education back locally. Were getting rid of Common Core. Were getting rid of Common Core.
Were going to bring our education local. Our education system is a mess and a big reason is coming.
So were going to start winning again folks. Were going to win with our military. Were going to win for our vets. Were going to win with education. Were going to win with health care. Were going to win big, big, big with trade. Were not going to have these deficits of $500 billion dollars a year losses.
We have with China $505 billion a year. They laugh at us and everyone talks about free trade. I was asked the other day I was said, they said, "Well, whats your –" I know free trade so much, OK.
They said, "Well whats your definition? What do you like? I said I like trade. Well, we make great deals for the United States. Thats what I -- Thats my definition. Thats my definition of trade. I know every form of trade I know every form of taxation. Were going to make great deals with the United States.
We have the greatest negotiators in the world. We dont use them. We use political hacks. Were gonna make great deals for the United States. So were got to bring our money back. We right now owe China $1.8 trillion dollars. We owe Japan $1.6 trillion. Think of it, Japan sends us millions of cars and we owe them $1.6 trillion.
You know what I call that a magic act, in reverse. Its like a magic. So folks were going to start winning again. Were going to win so much that the people of Colorado are going to be sick of winning.
Youre going to say, "Oh, I cant stand it." This guy, this president, he wins too much. Were not used to it. We cant take it and your representatives and our great head of the Republican Party who is a great guy, by the way and I thank you for introducing me. Im going to get calls in the White House.
Mr. President, please sir, please. We dont want to win this much. Were winning too much. My people in Colorado are going crazy. We just dont want to win. Not that much. Just a little bit. I say, "No way. Were going to win, win, win and were going to make America great again."
