Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Delivers a Speech on Tax Reform in Ohio|February 5, 2018
Oh, I love the state of Ohio. What great memories.  And were starting to boom, you know that. Its great to be back in Ohio, and be here with the hardworking men and women of Sheffer Corporation. Congratulations.  We have a lot of great people with us today. We have our Secretary of the Treasury, Steven Mnuchin.
A man that you know very well and has done an amazing job and a great job in helping us with the massive tax cuts that are helping everybody so much. And everyone has fallen in love with it. Ill tell you, Rob Portman, he knows his stuff. Thank you, Rob. Thank you.  A terrific guy, a friend of mine from day one, and hes been behind me from day one, Jim Renacci. Jim. Jim, thank you. Jim has been a great friend of mine.
Lieutenant Governor Mary Taylor, and Secretary of State Jon Husted.  And another great friend of ours, Brad Wenstrup, couldn’t be here. He’s -- Army Reserve duty. Thats okay, right? Thats a good excuse. Thats the only excuse wed accept. Great guy.
I want to thank you all, and I want to thank Jeff Norris and everyone here at Sheffer Corporation for hosting us at this really incredible facility. We just toured it. I love equipment.  And I love workers. You have them both. But its really something. Wonderful place.
Im here in the beautiful Cincinnati. Ill tell you, you know I was here -- I worked here for a long time. People dont know; most people dont know. Swifton Village, long time ago. Really? Oh, you know Swifton.
Came here a long time ago. I had a great success with my father. I was a young success. And, you know, if I didnt have a success, maybe I would have gone and just done something else. Who knows? But I spent a lot of time in this state and a lot of time in Cincinnati, and I love it.
And what I really want to do -- and come here and give something very big back. And thats tax cuts, I signed into law. Your paychecks are going way up.  Your taxes are going way down. And right now, for the first time in a long time -- and youve seen it -- factories are coming back. Everything is coming back. They all want to be where the action is. America is once again open for business. Right?
Weve already created nearly 2.6 million jobs since the election, including more than 200,000 new jobs in manufacturing. We love manufacturing.  Those are real jobs, not the other kind where they talk but theres nothing there.
Were bringing back those four magnificent words: "Made in the USA.""  Well count ""USA"" as one word. Is that okay?  I just said -- have to think about that one.  Unemployment claims have hit a 45-year low. Think of that. I mean
And something that Ive been talking about for two years -- campaigning, and everyone said, youll never do it. After years of wage stagnation, wages -- you saw what happened two days ago and a month ago -- wages are now, for the first time in many years, rising.
In fact, more companies are pursuing pay increases right now than at any time in the last long period of time -- they actually say, in the 21st century. Can you imagine that? Its amazing what people with some good ideas can do. Its amazing what weve done together.
This has been an incredible journey, but its happening even faster. And wait until you see GDP over the next year or two. Wait until you see what happens to our country. Because people can feel it. Billions and billions of dollars are being poured back into the United States.
At the center of America’s resurgence are the massive tax cuts that we just passed before Christmas. Remember two things. Number one, I said, "Were going to be saying Christmas again."" And
And I dont know if you remember, I was going to sign it around January 5th. And then I heard one of the hating groups on television: "He promised a Christmas present."""
Now, heres a thing that hasnt been done in a long time, many years -- really never done to this extent. You include ANWR, which is tremendous energy potential. And you include getting rid of our individual mandate -- the worst thing there is in Obamacare, which really leads to the repeal of Obamacare. When you look at those things -- I mean, there hasnt been anything. But I said, I want to give them a great Christmas present.
So January 5th -- so I heard them say, "He didnt make it with the Christmas present."" So I said
Otherwise I would have been hearing -- Rob -- "He did not fulfill his campaign obligation or promise"". Right? So now they cant say it. Just one more thing we check off the list. But it is the biggest tax cut and reform in American history. And at the heart of our plan is tremendous relief for working families and for small businesses."
A typical family of four, earning $75,000, will see an income tax cut of more than $2,000 a year -- and youre already seeing it -- slashing their income tax bill in half.  We nearly doubled the standard deduction, meaning the first $24,000 dollars earned by a married couple will be 100 percent tax-free. Not bad.
And we have doubled the child tax credit. That was compliments very much of Ivanka Trump. She would press us. Right, Rob?  She would press us. Pretty amazing. But we got it done. Not easy. And we had, by the way, we had no Democrats. We had nobody. Not one. Including your other Senator, who voted against it. No, he voted against it.
I dont care -- Republican, Democrat -- they voted against it. And if they ever got in, and if they ever took over, your taxes would go way up and youd see some bad things happening. So, wouldnt be good. That I can tell you. Would not be good.
When I signed the tax cuts six weeks ago, it set off a tidal wave of good news that continues to grow every single day. Before the ink was dry, companies were announcing thousands and thousands of new jobs and enormous investments to their workers.
Apple announced a $350 billion investment in America. And when I heard it, I said, "No
And believe me, the reason its happening is because of what we did. But I heard the number. I heard "350
So I figured theyre going to build a big, beautiful plant someplace. Then they came to me. They said, "Sir
And theyre going to do incredible things. Theyre going to build plants. Theyre going to build a tremendous campus. Theyre going to hire 20,000 people. Mobil just announced a fantastic $50 billion investment, if you look at that. Exxon Mobil. Fantastic.
Fiat Chrysler announced 2,500 jobs are coming back to Detroit -- to Motor City. Two thousand five hundred. And do you know where theyre coming from? . Mexico.  No, think of it.
Nothing against Mexico. We are re-negotiating NAFTA, I can tell you that. We are renegotiating.  Ive been telling you that for a long time. Ive been -- either you renegotiate or you terminate. But were renegotiating. Well see what happens.
But Chrysler, leaving Mexico, coming back to Motor City with a massive plant. I mean, you havent heard that in -- how many years would you say, Rob? Thirty? Twenty-five?
Were reversing it. And many other companies are coming back and many other car companies are coming back. And a lot of them, which is of most interest to you, are coming back to Ohio.  Theyre coming back here. Right here.
And right here in Cincinnati, on this very beautiful factory floor, the Sheffer Corporation announced that every single worker was getting a $1,000 tax cut bonus. You are so generous. Thank you.  Congratulations, everybody. Thats good. Thats good.
Hardworking, patriotic Americans like you are what make this country run, and run like no other. But we took away all of that pride and all of that incentive and were losing so many of our companies and were losing so many jobs.
And how long have I been talking about this? Ten, fifteen, twenty years, Ive been talking. You know, some of you have heard me saying this as a private businessperson -- "Were losing all our jobs. Were losing our companies."" Theyre coming back. Its your grit
But you know, you can work hard, but if you dont have the right leader setting the right tone -- in all fairness, Im not even saying -- I am non-braggadocios.  But if I dont set a tone like, "Youre not going to keep taking our jobs."" Youre not going to keep doing what youre doing."""
And wait until you see whats happening over the next two or three months with what were doing to countries that have treated us so unfairly. In many cases, so-called "friendly countries."" I dont call them ""friendly."" I dont call them ""friendly."""
But its all changing and those companies are coming back and those jobs are coming back. So you are among more than 3 million Americans who have received a tax cut bonus because of the tax cuts that we just signed into law.
Everywhere I go, I love to hear what people plan to do with the money. So, I thought we could take a few minutes to hear from some of your coworkers. You know who Im talking about, right? I assume you like these people.  I assume its central casting. Right, boss?
Tyler Berkshire -- do you know him -- joined Sheffer Corporation through an apprenticeship -- come on up here, Tyler -- six years ago. And now he is a machinist, and a talented one.  They like him, okay.
Nice to be loved. Its nice to be loved. I figured they would only send popular ones up here, you know.  The unpopular ones -- don’t worry, you dont have to worry about.
In addition to his $1,000 bonus, his paychecks are bigger because hes paying less taxes. Tyler, youre up here. Im going to give you a chance -- like, maybe 30 seconds or less --  -- to explain what youre going to do with all that extra money. In this case, over $1,000.
Thank you, Mr. President. And with the tax cut and the bonus, I will be trying to save up money to start a family and eventually get a bigger house.
Oh, I like that idea. Thats good.
And I appreciate all your hard work that youve been putting in, and all your -- Rob Portman, and everybody else. So I just want to say thank you.
I appreciate it, Tyler. Thats beautiful.  Beautiful job. Thank you, Tyler. Beautiful job. Thank you, Tyler.
Thats a good guy there, Jim. I think hell probably be very supportive of you.  I think everybody is going to be supportive. We need people that are going to do a great job and keep us in the right direction.  You know, we need them badly too. Or it all goes back to where it was and worse.
Oh, but did we catch them in the act, or what? You know what Im talking --  -- oh, did we catch them in the act? They are very embarrassed. They never thought they were going to get caught. We caught them. Hey, we caught them. Its so much fun. Were like the great sleuth.
Deana Spoleti is also with us. Wheres Deana? She joined Sheffer -- come on up, Deana -- in 2012 as a customer service rep, and has climbed her way all the way up to become a manager.
Deana is looking at a tax cut of $1,500 and that is on top of her $1,000 that Sheffer is already giving her. So thats $2,500-plus. What are you going to do with that money Deana? How are you?
Im good, thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for being here.
Thank you. Thank you, Deana.
When they asked me what this would mean to my family, really what it means to my family is the same that it means to all hardworking American families right now who are reaping the benefits of your tax cuts. It means that well have money in the bank, more money to make ends meet.
Personally, for my family, my husband Tim and I are in the process of buying a home. And in the fall, both of kids, Katie and Matthew, will be going to college. So well be using that money. That will be like a bonus we receive -- thank you, Sheffer -- a one-time bonus, but it will be an ongoing bonus in our paycheck every week. And it will just help us make ends meet. So thank you very much.
Wow. Great job. Thank you.  Beautiful. Oh, Im glad shes not running against you, Jim. Thats very good. Thank you very much. Shes doing a great job?
Yes.
Good. Like Tyler and Deana, millions of workers are thrilled to have more money to save for their children’s college, or to fix their home, or put aside money for a rainy day. But believe it or not, Nancy Pelosi and those in Congress who want to raise your taxes --
Booo --
They want to raise your taxes. They dont want to give the money to the military, where we need it. You know, without the military, we might not be here, or we might not be here for long, believe me.  Believe us all.
Nancy Pelosi -- what shes doing to this country. And shes gone so far left, and Schumer has gone so far left. Oh, I look forward to running against them.
Weve got to do well in 18, and I know were going to do great in 20. But I think were going to do well in 18. I think were going to do well in 18. I think were going to do very well.  They have gone left. They want to raise your taxes.
You know, I figure were safe. Historically, when you win the presidency -- you know the story. Just, for whatever reason it is -- and I think I figured it out. Nobody, really, has been able to explain it properly. I think I figured it -- the party wins the presidency. And now the people are happy and you see tax cuts, in this case, or whatever that party is -- but you see the big tax cuts, you see what were doing, jobs are coming back.
And the people that voted for us become complacent a little bit. Theyre happy. And its only two years -- between 16 and 20 -- and so its two years. So its a short time.
So the people are happy. And they dont get out, and they dont vote like they should. Maybe they go to a movie in 18. None of you are going to a movie, I hope. Right?
So what happens is, they sort of take it for granted. They sit back. And then they get clobbered because the other people are desperate. And they get out and they have more energy. But I think, because of what we’ve done, because of the tremendous success weve had, I have a feeling that were going to do incredibly well in 18.
And I have to say this: History is not on our side. But its not because of that word, "complacency."" You win the presidency and you take it easy
They dont want to give the money to the military, which we have to. Because our military, because of Obama and even beyond Obama -- its depleted. Its in bad shape. And were going to build it stronger than it ever was before. Weve already started. Weve already started.
So thats what happened. And thats happens in midterms. But were not going to let it happen to us. I mean, its -- traditionally, thats what goes on.
They never met Donald Trump.
Oh, I love that person. Whoever -- where is he?  I love him. I knew I liked that man. I saw him standing -- thank you.  But were going to be in there fighting because we dont want that tradition to go. We want to have tremendous success. We want to get Jim in, and we want to get a lot of other people in. But we have to have to have tremendous -- we have to have tremendous success.
And if we dont, were just foolish. We cant -- I know were going to do great in 20 because, by that time -- see, what happens is, if you did badly 18, now youre all angry again and youre going -- and now, 20 comes along. But we want to do great in 18. And were going to do really well in 20. Thats when we go again, and we keep this great journey going, okay?
So start thinking about 18, start thinking about November, start finding out exactly that little slot. Youre not going to a restaurant -- although you could. You could go and vote, and go to a restaurant. But thats what happens, and were not going to let that happen to us.
In addition to the bonuses created by our tax cuts, economists estimate that our business tax cut will raise the income of a typical family by an average of $4,000.
So Nancy Pelosi, again, said thats "crumbs."" Well
And I really think her statement about crumbs -- because youre getting thousands and thousands of dollars, and youre getting it every year. So I think her statement "crumbs"" will be equivalent -- and I said this the other day for the first time. When I first heard the word ""deplorable"" --  -- I thought it was a bad thing
It was not good because about two days after she said it, I go to a rally. And everyone is wearing shirts, "I am a deplorable."" ""Were all deplorables.""  I said
And I think this is not a good day for Nancy Pelosi. Shes our secret weapon.  No, shes our secret -- I just hope they dont change her. There are a lot of people that want to run her out. Shes really out there. And Im supposed to make a deal with her? But you know, the other day -- did anybody happen to see the State of the Union Address? Right? Okay.  So I got good marks.
But I said, we have the lowest black unemployment in the history of our country. It was like -- it was a game. You know, they play games. They were told, "Dont even make a facial movement."" And Im talking about
In fact, there was one guy -- when I said, the lowest African American unemployment, he was sort of clapping like -- who was that guy? He was a nice guy. I think he was a reverend. And he was clapping. And I wouldnt say it was exactly a rousing -- but he was putting his hands together. And I want to find out who he is. Im going to send him a letter of thank you. And he was probably severely reprimanded. Dont you think, Rob? I think so -- because he was the only one.
So that means they would rather see Trump do badly, okay, than our country do well. Thats what it means. Its very selfish. And it got to a point where I really didnt even want to look too much during the speech over to that side. Because, honestly, it was bad energy. That was bad energy.
Youre up there, youve got half the room going totally crazy, wild -- they loved everything, they want to do something great for our country. And you have the other side, even on positive news -- really positive news, like that -- they were like death and un-American. Un-American.
Somebody said, "treasonous."" I mean
But you look at that, and its really very, very sad. So we have to keep it going because this country is turning, and its turning much faster. And I said Im going to do it, but its happening faster than I thought.
And a big part of it is the fact that the companies kicked in because nobody saw that. AT&T came in, another one came in, another one -- Comcast.
So many companies kicked in -- hundreds. Now its going to end up being thousands of companies. This company, too. Its a little smaller than AT&T, but well take it.  For the people in this room, its much more important than AT&T. Right?
But great companies like this -- many companies. And thats -- honestly, we said, come February 1st, nobody is going to beat it because youre going to get your checks and youre going to see you have more money. Because theyre taking a lot less taxes out of your check. And I just dont think that anybody can beat it.
And Senator Brown voted against us, and fought us like crazy. Okay? Just remember that. He voted against you. Just -- when you go in there, he voted against you. Not good. Not good.
So weve gone from being one of the highest-taxed countries anywhere in the world to being one of the most competitive because when our workers have a level playing field, which they didnt have, they can compete and win against anyone in the world.
And that goes for our companies. But we were forcing our companies out. Now were bringing our companies back in. And if they dont want to come in, thats okay. But theyre not going to be so happy, believe me. And I told you that a long time ago. Its not like the old days.
And when our workers win, who really wins? Our country wins because were all in this together. Were one team, one people, and one family. And were saluting one great American flag, and everybody stood up yesterday. There was nobody kneeling at the beginning of the Super Bowl.  Weve made a lot of improvement, havent we? Thats a big improvement.  And on top of that, it was a good game. So a lot of good things happened. But there was no kneeling before that Super Bowl.
Today, were thrilled to be joined by several business leaders who understand just how true all of the things that were saying are. Were also thrilled to have a lot of the fake news media in the back. Those cameras are rolling. Hi, folks.  Thats what good about doing it live. They cant cut you.  You know, when you do a tape, you end up saying, "Well
I want to start with a man I watched today on Fox, and he was terrific -- Jeff Norris. Jeff, come on up.  We know Jeff. So we know every employee has already received a $1,000 bonus, and theyve gotten a lot of tax -- really lower tax -- so theyre doing a lot better. But Jeff, why don’t you tell us a little bit more about your plans for the future of the company, and also what you have in mind for the money, which is going to be a lot, that you save on taxes.
Thank you. Well, first of all, welcome everybody here. And its such a blessing to have you here, President Trump. In all my years, you pray for a President like this that will take care of the working class and businesses, and we finally have one here. And Ill talk about my stuff in a little bit --  -- but we need to make sure that we support President Trump, especially in 2018.
And we need to vote out people that are an obstacle to him. In manufacturing, our job is to remove obstacles. This man can remove obstacles, and we need to clear the path for him.
What we plan on doing with the tax savings: invest it in our people, our processes, and our equipment, and continue to try to make America great again. And like you said before, weve got the greatest workforce in the world, we just need a level playing field just a little closer. It doesn’t have to be there; just a little closer because our people can do it. And Im just proud to have you as our President. And I wish you the best, and God bless you. Thank you, Mr. Trump.
Youve been doing such a good job. I want to thank you for doing such a great job, too. Thank you.
Thats what its all about. Thats true. Greg Carmichael is the CEO of Fifth Third Bancorp -- big bank -- which is headquartered right here in Cincinnati. Greg, please step up. Tell us what youre doing, with respect to all of those incredible workers. You have 14,000 of your employees, and youre doing something very special for them, so Id like to hear it. Thank you, Greg.
Mr. President, thank you. Thank you for everything youve done for our nation. And we thank you for your efforts and your leadership in bringing tax reform to America.
At Fifth Third Bank, were already feeling the effects of the tax benefit, and were working to pass those benefits onto our employees.
Immediately upon the announcement of the passing of the legislation, Fifth Third Bank announced an investment in our employees that included raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour, and providing a $1,000 bonus for over 13,500 of our valuable employees.
Thats good. Thats fantastic.
Were investing in our employees because of the contribution they make to our bank, to their families, and the communities in which they serve.
Mr. President, thank you for bringing meaningful tax reform in jumpstarting the U.S. economy. Thank you.
Fantastic. Thank you. Its a great bank, too. Thank you very much. Thats a lot of employees -- 14,000. Big bank, great bank.
Matt Schron is general manager at Jergens Incorporated, a manufacturing company founded by his family 75 years ago in Cleveland. You must be very rich.  Matt, why don’t you come on up and tell us about these massive cuts and how theyre benefitting your people, your employees, your workers. Thanks, Matt.
Mr. Trump, thank you very much for your leadership on this tax reform. Im honored to be here today representing Jergens and the manufacturing community. Jergens was founded in 1914 during World War II, manufacturing airplane seat components. Today, were a worldwide leader in workholding, fixturing, and specialty fasteners.
Last year was a record year for Jergens. And thanks to your tax cuts, we see continued success in the future. Jergens is going to be using your tax breaks to invest in our greatest asset: our employees. In April, during our annual performance reviews, were going to be doubling the annual rate increases that we will be providing our employees.
Thank you. Wow.
In addition, were going to be using your tax break to invest in capital for our machine shop, and also research and development for our company, which will help us to hire more people in the future.
So, Mr. Trump, your tax break has three benefits: one, more money for our employees; two, were going to have more equipment for our facility; and three, were going to be able to hire more people. Mr. Trump, thank you very much for your leadership in the tax reform.
Thank you, Matt. Thank you very much.  Great job. Great company. Great company. Thank you very much. Great job youve done.
Finally, Chris Irion is the CEO of e-Cycle, an environmental services company in Columbus that recycles and resells smartphones. Lets see, you recycle smartphones. Think about that one.  What about when they smash those phones with a hammer?  Can you bring them back to life? Oh, what you would find. Oh, can you imagine that, Rob, what we would find? Do most people, when they toss a phone, do they smash them with a hammer? No? Not too many.
Well, if you could recycle them, Im with you all the way, Chris.  I just saw that, I said, "Boy
Thank you, Mr. President. Im pleased to announce that e-Cycle paid out our largest bonus in company history this past Friday. One-hundred percent of all of our hourly and salaried employees participated in this bonus program of over $350,000.
Great.
In addition, due to the greatest tax reform package just passed in U.S. history, we’re celebrating with an additional $1,000 tax reform bonus for all of our 55 employees.  For all the e-Cycle team members watching right now, thank you for everything that you do
Thank you again, Mr. President, for believing in the American worker and the American Dream. You just made America great again.
Thank you.  Thank you, Chris. And thank you all for investing in our great American workers and our great American companies. Every job you create makes our country stronger and the future of our country brighter.
Jobs are about more than paychecks. Good jobs are the cornerstone of a safe and a strong and a proud America. There is nothing more important than the sense of pride and accomplishment that comes at the end of a hard day’s work. And all of us -- me, you, all of us in this room -- we know that feeling. Just about every day, we know that feeling.
Thats why we want every American to know the dignity of work, the pride of a paycheck, and the satisfaction of the statement, "Job well done.""  Creating good jobs is also an important part of fighting the drug epidemic that has affected millions of Americans
People form blue ribbon committees, they do everything they can. And, frankly, I have a different take on it. My take is, you have to get really, really tough -- really mean -- with the drug pushers and the drug dealers. We can do all the blue ribbon committees we want.  We have to get a lot tougher than we are. And we have to stop drugs from pouring across our border.
You got to build that wall.
Oh, were building the wall. Believe me. Were building the wall. Dont even think about it.  Somebody said, the other day, "Well
And the ones that dont want security at the southern border or any other border, are the Democrats. They dont care about the security of our country. They dont care about MS-13 killers pouring into our country. And we bring them out almost as fast as they come in. But nobody was bringing them out before us. And these are killers.
But our guys are tougher than them, and thats what we need. Sorry.  And our Democrats ought to get smart, and they ought to get tough, or the situation is going to get very bad. But were going to win.
As we speak, our wonderful First Lady is visiting Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center, hearing directly from doctors about their incredible work treating beautiful, precious, little babies who are born addicted to opioids, and how government can help them save lives.
And, actually, Mrs. Portman is with Melania right now. Theyre together. Your wife, I hear, does an incredible job with the hospital. So thank you, Rob, very much. Appreciate it.
America will not overcome this epidemic overnight. But just like Americans always will -- I do think we have to change our ways, and we will -- but we will prevail. Were going to beat it. Were going to get tough, were going to get angry, and were going to win.
Our children are being decimated. You know, one drug dealer can kill thousands of people. One drug dealer. If you ever did an average -- nobody has ever seen this, youve probably never heard this before -- but if you ever did an average, a drug dealer will kill thousands of people. And we dont even come down on these people. So its time to start, and that time is now. Right now.
We want every American to live a life of meaning, of purpose, and of joy. And we want every American to have a job they love so they can wake up each morning excited to go to work, like all of you people are. Right? Youre excited. You love it -- thinking about where Im going to put that next big, beautiful machine. One-year expensing.  You buy the machine now, one-year expensing.
That will be one of the biggest things -- nobody even talks about it -- in our tax cut plan. Right? The one-year expensing. Nobody thought theyd ever see that in this country, and I think thats going to have a great incentive. I think thats going to have a tremendous incentive.
They dont talk about that one, and -- you know, people dont talk about that. Most people dont know what it means, but some of the people in this room do. Its the one-year expensing. You watch. Thats going to have a big impact.
Thats why our tax bill also creates new opportunity zones rewarding those who invest in distressed communities and create more jobs for those who have, too often, simply been left behind.
Workers will not only make more money because of our tax cuts. Starting this month, you will keep that money in your pocket, in your bank, or you may want to buy something. But youre going to keep the money that you earned. Youre going to spend it. The government wont be spending it for you. Something really nice about that.
Families in the great state of Ohio -- remember, for two years, you heard, "Donald Trump has to go through Ohio."" I said
And now its much better than even Election Day. I saw that -- they just showed that to me inside. Much better than even Election Day. And we did well on Election Day. That was about one minute after the polls closed. "Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio."" That wasnt too close
Were going better now because -- you know what? Now, were producing. Before it was talk. See, before it was talk. It was like the State of the Union. Now, they thought I gave a State of the Union last year that was really good. They didnt call it the State of the Union because you werent there for a year. But it was nevertheless, sort of, the same thing. They thought it was very good.
But they said, this was one better because last time was aspirational. I said, "Were going to get this
With judges; with the Supreme Court Justice, Gorsuch, who is great; with so many different things.  And then, of course, topped off by the tremendous tax cuts and the individual mandate, and all of the different things weve done -- ANWR. So many different things.
And, by the way, the big thing that nobody talks about that you would be talking about: regulation. Weve cut regulation. I actually think -- Im here to talk about tax cuts -- but I actually think that cutting regulation has more of an impact, or as much. We have cut more regulation in one year than any President has cut in four, eight, or, in one case, sixteen years. More.
And we have a ways to go. We havent finished. Were probably 47, 48 percent of the way there. We have a ways to go. Some of its statutory. You can only go so fast. You have to do this, and then wait 90 days. Do this, and wait 120 days. But all those clocks are ticking. Families in Ohio will see a tax cut of more $8 billion this year -- $8 billion. Thats good. Thats good.
And even more good news. Major electric and gas companies are lowering your utility prices and your utility bills because of tax reform, which is a big win not only for families, but a really big win, when you think of it, for the manufacturers. For places like this.
The energy costs are going down. Like, other countries -- theyre going up. You know why ours are going down, right? Because I believe in a lot of good, clean, but old-fashioned stuff that really works and really has power behind it.
Theres never been a better time to hire in America, to invest in America, and to start living the American Dream. Theres never been a better time than this. Because the future of America doesn’t belong to the privileged few, it belongs to all of the people -- all of those people that I saw for two years now.
It belongs to those people. The forgotten man and women. They worked hard. They paid taxes. They worked hard. They paid taxes. Thats what they did. They worked; they worked; they worked. They paid; they paid; they paid. And then they were forgotten by the politicians. Youre not forgotten anymore. Youre not forgotten anymore. And thats what happened on November 8th, they werent forgotten.
Now the Democrats are trying to figure, "Lets see. You know we forgot about those people for about 100 years. How do you get them back into the fold?"" Its not going to be so easy for them because youre going to remember. It belongs to the hardworking men and women who play by the rules
The fact is, the future belongs to you. You are the ones who raise Americas great and beautiful families, support Americas communities, and uphold our values, our principles, and the American way of life.
Workers like you carve the steel into our skyscrapers -- and I just got to see a lot of it -- by great machinists, by great mechanics, by great people. You build the machines that power our cities and teach the next generation of children what it means to be a proud American.
