Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Redding, CA|June 3, 2016
Wow. This is amazing. Wow. Thank you, folks. Thank you. Redding, Redding. Oh, we love Redding. Thank you very much, everybody.
I think its 104 degrees. Is everybody OK?
If anyone is not feeling well, come up here. We have plenty of water to share. This is hot out.
So, I want to thank you all. You know, they just got some very bad news. The worst jobs report in six-and-a-half years, OK? I dont know if you saw that -- 38,000 jobs. Its going the wrong way, folks. Theyve been kidding themselves. Theyre playing games. Its going the wrong way. They had a labor participate rate, it fell to 62.6, which is one of the worst in many, many, many years.
So we know what were doing. Were going to turn it around. Were going to make America great again. Were going to bring back our jobs. Were going to bring back our jobs.
And were going to bring them back fast. So you remember the 1,237, right? And they said, Oh
Shes working hard and she cant close it with Bernie. Good old Bernie. We love our Bernie, dont we? Ill tell you what. What a mess shes in. And the people that are with Bernie, they dont want to vote for her. They want to vote for Trump, a lot of them. You saw that poll just came out.
Because whether you like Bernie or not, hes right about one thing. Trade is a disaster for our country. Thats the one thing hes right about. The trade deals that our country makes are an absolute disaster.
Hello, look at all those people over there. Theyre just crazy. Wow.
You know, I wish these camera guys would spin it around. Theyre so dishonest. Its unbelievable. To see it 100-and-something degrees out here, to have this number of people. Are we happy to be here?
And by the way, on June 7th, you have to get out and vote. Because, you know, were setting records. Weve already broken the record. In all fairness, weve already broken it.
Oh, I like that cap. Hes got the same cap I have on. You like that, right? Hunters -- the NRA -- this is the NRA. They gave me the endorsement. You saw that.
Theyre great, great people. Lane and Chris, theyre great people. They gave me the earliest endorsement I think theyve ever given to anybody -- National Rifle Association, folks. Were going to protect your Second Amendment, believe me. Were going to protect -- we will protect your Second Amendment.
I love you, too. Nice guy over there. Big strong guy. I love you, Trump, but I love you.
So look, weve had an incredible period of time. June 16th we started and its been an amazing ride. All over the world, theyre talking about it. Its a movement. They say theyve never seen anything like it. The biggest crowds of anybody by far.
The other night, Bernie had 3,000; I had 17,000. They said -- thank you.
And they talked about me, Donald Trump made a speech blah, blah, blah. Never mentioned the number of people. Then they talked about Bernie. Bernie Sanders had a massive crowd of 3
You know, they used to call it the silent majority; now I think were going to call it the noisy majority. Were not silent anymore, folks. Were not silent.
And did you see last night in San Jose, we had an amazing packed crowd. It was packed and it was incredible and they had the basketball game which is -- you know, that area, the San Francisco game and we had some crowd. It was absolutely incredible and it was a lovefest inside, no problems whatsoever. We went on, we spoke, we had a good time for an hour. I said, I want to get you guys out to see -- you can see the San Francisco team
But I wanted to get them out. They said, No
Build that wall. Youre right. Were going to build the wall, folks. Dont even think about it. You know, a lot of people -- you saw that Ive got a lot of endorsements, and Paul Ryan just endorsed me and Mitch McConnell and everybody. But we got a lot of support. We have tremendous support.
I mean, when you think that, you know, in the history of our party, more votes than anybody that has ever done this before. Think of it. You know, think. More than Dwight Eisenhower. I mean, he won the second World War. More than Ronald Reagan, who we all love, more than anybody and weve got a lot of endorsements and were very popular now within the party and polls are coming out showing were doing very well and winning in some cases.
The Fox poll came out a few days ago and were winning by three points. Were winning. Were beating Hillary. Did you see...
Did you see that phony speech she made yesterday? Every word -- and people think, oh, did she speak well. Shes got two -- a teleprompter here and there. Did you ever notice  Donald Trump is a bad man. Donald Trump has a bad tone. We need a tough tone in this country, folks. We dont need this kind of stuff anymore.
She said, I dont like the tone of Donald Trump." That was a while ago. She said
Were going to bring back our jobs. Were going to take our country back. Were going to run it properly, folks. And youre going to be proud of your country again.
And you know, they do research. Good. I like that. USA, USA, USA. I like that. I like that.
So California, good place. By the way, Im going to play heavy in California, right? I think we can win it. You know -- I mean, we get crowds like this all over the place. They didnt even give you a hangar. Theres no hangar big enough. They dont even give hangars anymore. But its amazing the kind of receptivity that we have.
And every magazine and every newspaper whether they like us or not -- and I say us because honestly, folks, Im a messenger. Am I doing a good job as a messenger?
But Im a messenger and its incredible whats happened. And people are saying its the most incredible political phenomenon -- I mean, theyre actually saying -- that theyve ever seen. One of the pundits told me the other day, and very strongly said, You know
Ive been fighting them all my life. I like fighting them. But youve been fighting all of these people, and week after week youre down to 16, youre down to 14, youre down to 12. Youre down to nine, seven, five, four, three, two, one.
And -- and they said theres never been anything like it. And they said it doesnt matter whether we win or lose, its been incredible. It will be in the history books forever. They said its never happened. Bill OReilly said the single greatest political phenomena hes ever seen in his life.
And Im saying: What the hell are they talking about? We have to win, right? We have to win. We didnt come this far to lose.
So were going to play California, because I think Hillary is very weak. I think shes pathetic. I think she should be in jail for what she did with her e-mails. OK?
She should be in jail. She should be in jail for what she did with those e-mails. Let me tell you, you know, she wants to play a little tough. You know, they go back and she polls it. Every word that she said was polled.
I dont poll. I dont have teleprompters here, folks. I dont need teleprompters. Its called, like, up here and its called memory and its called other things. And I -- I speak from here and from the heart. OK?
Because thats what we need. And every single thing she said yesterday was polled. And her people wrote it out and they dont see the teleprompters. And it makes it like, Oh
And these pundits -- if I ever did that, Id be run out of town, believe me. They would get us -- vote for Hillary
We have to do this -- and South Korea. I mean, were protecting South Korea from the maniac in the north, and were protecting them.
Now, he actually said -- you know, I said this -- they said, Would you mind having negotiations with North Korea?" No problem. Who the hell cares? You have a negotiation. Im not going there. But you have a negotiation. They say
Who knows if the talks work. Maybe they will. Maybe they wont. They probably will, if you want to know the truth. Then Putin said, Donald Trump is a genius; hes going to be the next great leader of the United States." ""ho knows if the talks work. Maybe they will. Maybe they wont. They probably will
No, no. Think of it. So, they wanted me to disavow what he said. How dare you call me a genius? How dare you call me a genius, Vladimir? Never say a thing. Wouldnt it be nice if we actually got along with Russia? Wouldnt that be good? I mean, is that a bad thing?
And Im not talking from weakness, folks. I know all about negotiating from weakness and from strength. Hillary Clinton is a weak person. Hillary Clinton is totally scripted. Hillary Clinton is a thief. And Hillary Clinton should be in jail for what she did to our national security.
I mean, the only problem is Id like to run against her, if you want to know the truth. But -- but she should be. What shes done is terrible.
So look, we have a -- I cant believe it. Look at all the people out there trying to get in. Hello, everybody. Look at those people. Look at that. Look at all those people out there. You guys have all the good . Why, they couldnt have -- they couldnt have pulled these fences a little bit further out?
But you dont want them to come in. You have enough people here, right? See, thats the way life works. Life is vicious.
So, when we talk about the different attributes, I mean you look at the word tone." But Ill use a different word. Bernie Sanders said that Hillary Clinton has bad judgment. She has bad judgment. You know
What Chinas doing with our intellectual property, stealing billions. We dont do anything about it during her regime.
But you look at whats going on. So here is Hillary all loused up with a simple e-mail system and you know, you ask why did she do it? I understand why she did it, because shes a thief, thats why she did it. But I get why she did it. But talk about judgment. How do you have a president with that kind of bad judgment?
She could have used the government stuff. She could have taken the government server, assume everybodys listening. I always do. Every time I pick up a phone, I assume people are listening. Now, you sue their ass off if they are if you can find them. You drop a little lawsuit on them and make them pay big league.
But you know what? For her to do what she did puts our country at risk. Shes secretary of state. Shes got people like Huma, whos -- Weiner -- Anthony Weiner -- shes the wife of Anthony Weiner. Now, how would you like Anthony Weiner to be having all these secrets? Well, guess what? She tells Anthony Weiner everything there is. I dont want -- I know Anthony Weiner. I dont want him knowing anything, folks. OK?
And I never ever want him to tweet me, right? Does anybody want him to tweet? No, I dont think. No, no. Shes married to Anthony Weiner. She goes home, she tells -- like -- hey look, folks, thats the way life works. She goes home, she tells him everything. Who the hell wants that? This is not right, all right? Its not right.
Now, General Petraeus has suffered greatly. Many other people have suffered greatly for doing far less than what Hillary Clinton did. And you know what, folks? To me, as the woman just said, but she got away with it. It looks like she got away with it -- unless I win.
And everything will be fair, but were going to have an attorney general and the attorney generals going to take a look and see, because you know theres a five-year or six-year statute of limitations. So she really is running for some pretty important reasons for herself.
Look, when somebody does something so wrong as that, they have to pay the consequences. She put our nation in difficulty. Did you see her I.T. specialist? Hes taken the Fifth. The word is hes ratting her out like you wouldnt believe it, but they want to try and save her. Thats not the way the government is supposed to work. They arent supposed to be trying to save her, theyre supposed to be doing the right thing.
But the press never -- it never lets up and it never follows that story. It never follows the real story. So do you remember in Iowa? I made a speech. And I said, you know, lets see -- lets raise some money for our vets, you know? And I figured maybe wed raise half a million or a million or two million or something. But lets face it, we end up raising almost $6 million and I got bad publicity. Can you imagine? This can only happen to me, believe me.
I end up raising almost -- I have more calls and more e-mails and more tweets at realdonaldtrump, everybody. At realdonaldtrump. Its actually amazing. You know, if I tweet something, CNN and Fox, all of a sudden they say, We have breaking news. Donald Trump has --" Im sitting there tweeting
You know, we have like almost nine million on twitter, weve got a similar number on Facebook. On instagram, like a million and a half or something. Were soon going to be 20 million people. Thats like owning the New York Times without the lawsuits, right? No, its pretty good.
And then they say, You shouldnt use --" you know
So we raised almost $6 million and the dishonest press -- they are so dishonest. Not all of them, but many of them. They are so dishonest, if I would have done nothing, it would have been fine. I said lets raise some money for the vets.
But Im glad I did it because I have gotten more credit from the vets and more thank yous from the vets. We gave it out to many, many groups. I dont even know have many. But you know, they wake up and they get $100,000 in the mail, they get $150,000, they get $250,000. One of them got, I think, $1.1 million in the mail.
And theyre great. I mean, theyre great. Theyre great people. And they appreciate it -- so they appreciate it. Its fine. But they put the negative spin on everything. No matter what we do.
You know, its funny. The New York Times puts me on -- what? Oh, get a medic, please. Medic. OK? OK. You just take it easy, darling. Take it easy. Its hot out here, right? Right over here -- medic. Right over here. Thank you.
We love you, man. We love you. Some of these people got here five, six hours ago.
Hows that? Is she OK?
We want to make sure shes OK. She was here for five hours, they say -- five hours. Some of them here for seven, eight hours.
Hi. Oh, we love you. Are you OK, honey? Give her a hand, everybody.
Give her a hand.
Thats great. Shes tougher than all of us. And look at the medics and look at the police. What a great job they do, right? Isnt that right?
EMT. Give them a hand, by the way. Great job.
Thank you, darling.
All right. Good. She looks like shes in good shape. Thank you very much. Thats true, though. The police and the medics and the firemen- and -women, and whatever, the job they do and theyre not appreciated in this country. Theyre going to start being appreciated again, folks.
Theyre going to start.
How -- is she good? Shes good over there? Everything good? Thats good. Thats good.
Thank you, honey.
So, were going to do things that havent been done in a long time. Were going to start winning again. We dont win anymore. We dont win anymore. Even a report like this you see today. It was like a bombshell. They were expecting 150,000, maybe 200,000 jobs; turns out to be 38,000. And theyre bad jobs, folks.
You know, everybody, even the other side says we dont have good jobs anymore. Our good jobs are moving to Mexico, along with the companies that are moving there. Theyre moving to China, where China is making all our products. They keep devaluing their currency.
You know, I had a meeting today and I must have had 50 Chinese people there -- people from China or formerly from China. And they all love Trump. And CNN was there -- Jake Tapper was there. And we had an amazing time. They couldnt believe it. And John Dickerson, also a good guy, he was there from CBS. They were doing an interview. They looked outside: Who are all those people?" They were people from China that are endorsing Trump. ""ou know
And they couldnt believe it. Nobody could believe it. And there was, like, love. And I dont blame the Chinese government. And I dont blame the Mexican government. I want our government to be smart. I want our government to get away with the kind of things they get away with.
But we have leaders that dont have a clue. And Hillary Clinton is at the top of the list. Shes incompetent. Lets face it. First of all, shes always got problems -- Whitewater, impeachment, lies. He didnt have sex with that woman." Two months later
These are lying people. We dont need, folks, another four years of the Clintons. We dont need it. Its a mess.
Its a mess. So what were going to do is were going to have a strong temperament, not that weak temperament: I dont like his temperament; I dont like his tone." Well
Temperament is very important. Its very, very important. But we need strength. We dont need these weak people. Thats all they do. They talk about, Well
Now, I could just say, you know, slough it off and say, Oh
Now, my temperament is totally controlled, so beautiful. I built an unbelievable company. I did so many great things.
I mean, I just came in and hi read about a school where the Clintons are involved where theyve gotten $16 million and its a scam. And Im hearing -- why arent they sued? Why arent they sued? They scammed a school. Why arent they being sued? Its a big story, but you know, these people dont want to talk about it.
Temperament is a very important word. We need toughness in tone. We need toughness in temperament. And frankly, I honestly believe it. I really mean this. I think that Hillary Clinton is unfit to lead our country, certainly at this time.
I think shes unfit. She doesnt have what it takes. Youre going to go through four more years. I call her Obama light. I think its going to be at least as bad and maybe worse. And think of what I said. Theyre scamming us with cyber. Were living in a cyber world. And here she is all screwed up with her e-mails. She doesnt know what the hell is going on. Its a mess. You talk about composure, you talk about temperament, you talk about all these things. Who would be so stupid to do what she did with her e-mails? I mean, who would be so stupid?
So, we are going to turn this country around. We are going to do things that are going to make you so proud of your president, but more much importantly, so proud of your country again because you know, when people say -- I deal with all these countries. I have great deals in all these countries. I have so many deals. And they laugh. They laugh at us. They say, What is going on?" They dont believe it.""o
Even the people from China this morning. Youll see because I think its going to be on CNN, probably on CBS. Youll see. Theyre saying, No
You know, they know me. I dont know if they know Im going to be revealing this, but they say, We cant believe -- we cant believe we get away with it." So were going to turn it around.""ou know
Now, a couple of things. We need strong borders. Weve got to have borders. Either that or we dont have a country.
Sixteen-thousand five-hundred border patrol agents two weeks ago endorsed me. First time theyve ever endorsed a presidential candidate. And I asked them -- I said to them -- I mean, what a perfect group to ask as opposed to some consultant that wants to suck you dry with fees that doesnt know anything, right? They know less than that beautiful young woman standing there. They know less, OK? All they know is how to get fees.
So I asked them when I was with the. I said, Let me ask you
Not going to be any ramps with my wall, folks. Its going to be a serious wall. Its going to be a real deal wall. Its going to be way up there. Its going to be a big, beautiful wall. And you know what? Someday, maybe theyll name it after Trump, but Id much rather have a statue in Washington, D.C. Lets do a real good job.
So look -- so were going to build that wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion a year, $58 billion. Thats doesnt include the drugs that are pouring across the border, and yet we have companies moving into Mexico. They just took the world golf championship out of Miami and they brought it into Mexico. The people of Miami are furious. They brought it into Mexico. They signed like a six-year deal with Mexico.
They take everything. They take everything because we allow it to happen. But were not going to allow it. As an example -- I use the example of Carrier Air Conditioning in Indiana. You know, we won Indiana big. Remember, that was going to be the firewall for other people running and it was a firewall. It was a firewall for me. I won in a landslide.
Thank you Bobby Knight, right? The great Bobby Knight. We love Bobby. And others, by the way. I mean, we had incredible -- we had incredible support. Lou Holtz came out and so many different people came out. And they supported me. And I knew I was going to win Indiana. They kept saying, Were going to win Indiana."""hank you Bobby Knight
Let me tell you what I think. I think, and nobody else -- lets say Ted Cruz won, he wouldnt be here right now. Lets say somebody else won. They wouldnt be here right now. They gave up -- always give up on California as a Republican because they say you cant win.
I think we can win. I think we can win.
So were going after California. Were going after the state of Washington. Were going after places that no other Republican goes after. Because, you know, we have a little bit of a tighter path. We have a few states that if we dont win them, its over. Whereas the Democrats can lose numerous states and they can win.
So we have a tighter path. But Im not your typical person. And when we come out -- Costa Mesa, we had 31,000 people. They hardly showed that because that was the day the kid was jumping on the police car breaking the hell out of it. And he probably wasnt arrested. You know, some people arrest.
You know, Sheriff Joe Arpaio, you know that.
Now, whos tougher at the border than Sheriff Joe? Between that and the Border Patrol, but Sheriff Joe totally endorsed me, right? Nobody tougher than Sheriff Joe. But he told me, and I saw this, they had a couple of people protesting. They put those people in jail so fast everyone else scattered in two seconds.
I said thats the way it has to be done. Thats the way it has to be done. We need strength in our country. And I see it, but the thugs last night in San Jose. And then this Democrat mayor gets up. He said, Well
So we have an African American guy at one of the rallies a month ago. And hes sitting there behaving. And we had protesters inside the arena. And they were dressed in a Ku Klux Klan outfit, OK? And theyre running around dressed as Ku Klux Klan.
And the place is booing and booing. This African American gets up and, man, he slugged these guys. He slugged them. And by that time, their hat was off because they got ripped off as they were running up the stairs. But this guy, a great guy -- I think he was a military guy for a long time. He slugged this guy wearing the Ku Klux Klan outfit.
But by the time he got up to the top, you couldnt see it was a Ku Klux Klan outfit. So when the African American cold-cocked this guy, this guy never knew what happened. Everybody thought the African American was against me. And it was the opposite. He was like this great guy, military guy. We have tremendous African American support. The reason is Im going to bring jobs back to our country. Were going to bring jobs back.
But when these sleazy people, these dishonest people who never show the crowds. They never, ever show the crowds. When they showed that event, it made it look like the white guy was on my side. The African American guy said, I had enough
Let me tell you, while were on the subject, we are going to bring jobs back to this country. We need our jobs. Were going to make it very expensive for companies to fire everybody and leave.
You know, your area has lost one in three manufacturing jobs over a fairly short period of time. Thats a lot of manufacturing jobs. Your crime rate is way the hell up. You know that. I mean, I have these statistics. By the way, theyre that way all over the place. When I go to Pennsylvania, we won that in a landslide. When I go to Connecticut, landslide; Maryland, landslide; Rhode Island, landslide; Delaware, landslide. The week before that, we had New York, super landslide.
You know whats nice? They know me in New York. They know me. We had three people running. I got 62 percent; won everything -- I mean, I won so much, people couldnt even believe it -- way, way above even projections. I knew I was going to win.
But isnt it nice, even for you, where the people that know me the best give me a tremendous vote of confidence, and we won it bigly .
And then you have these guys Charles Krauthammer. Donald Trump is not at 50 percent." Ive got like 12 people running against me in some of these states
I listened to Krauthammer say its the finest group of talent ever assembled in the history of the Republican Party. I looked at my wife, I said, You know
With that being said, we are going to build our military so powerful, so strong, nobody is going to mess with us. Our military is depleted. Did you see those things on Fox and CNN where they had a sort of documentary on whats going on with our flyers, right? We have these great airmen. And whats going on with our equipment? Where one of the airmen, I used to be so proud." Now
So they go into a plane graveyard -- you know, thats where they dump the old planes -- and theyre stealing parts for our fighter jets and theyre stealing parts from museums where they show the fighter jets. Theyre going in and theyre taking parts because they want to be able to continue to fly. This is the United States. Can you imagine them doing that?
And then they spoke to these young pilots, these great guys, and they said, Well
So we have a lot of things to do and were going to do things the right way. Hillary Clinton is not a talented person. Shes not a natural. She wasnt meant for this job. Shes greedy. Shes greedy as hell, and thats, I think, the reason she wants it. But she doesnt have the talent for the job, shes not a natural for the job and shes just not a natural talent. And honestly, folks, look, beyond me, if you choose Hillary Clinton, this country is going to die. Its going to die. Shes not respected by other countries.
When she goes -- she wonts ask -- as an example, when I said, Japan
You know, right now, we have to defend them from North Korea. If anything happens, we have to defend them. You know, though, and I say it to all -- to everybody, we defend them, but if something happens with us, we get attacked, Japan doesnt have to help us. Now, think of it. Thats our deal. Sergeant Bergdahl, we get Bergdahl, they get five of the greatest killers that they have. Theyve been after them for nine years. I call them him the five-for-one president.
And thats the same thing with the Iran deal. We gave them $150 billion and thats the only time we got our prisoners back. We shouldnt have even started a negotiation until we got those prisoners back. And not once did this stiff -- hes a total stiff. John Kerry, not once did he get up from the bargaining table and say, Sorry
And by the way, the biggest loser in that deal aside from us is Israel. Israel is beside themselves over that deal. That deal is a disaster for Israel and a disaster for the Middle East, because youre going to have countries now start to arm up and arm up big. Its a disaster.
This is the president that we have and I believe that Hillary Clinton is going to be worse than Obama, OK? I believe shes got less talent than Obama, she has less natural ability than Obama and Im not saying he has much because he doesnt. But hes got an agenda, folks because he has to have an agenda. Because nobody can be so stupid and nobody can make deals like this guy is making.
Now, remember this, remember this. Obamas been talking lately. Hes been talking about Donald Trump. And normally, I wouldnt want to attack the president. I wouldnt want to say bad. Id rather not. But once he speaks like Bill Clinton -- he started speaking. Now, hes been very quiet lately, very quiet.
But you know what? He started speaking. Once they attack, then were allowed. So hes going to go out and campaign for Hillary. By the way, he doesnt like Hillary and Hillary hates Obama. You know that. Shes hated him for years. Obama called Bill Clinton a racist. Bill Clinton hates Obama. And I know that for a personal fact.
But he hates Obama, hates him. The biggest surprise to me is that he made the speech at the convention for him. Honestly, because he hates Obama. Hillary Clinton cant stand Obama. But now Hillary will do anything he says. You know why? She doesnt want to go to jail. You noticed? The president all of a sudden, they were going to dissociate themselves from the president. All of a sudden, anything he wants, shell do. Because it seems like theyre protecting her.
Lets take the word seems" out. OK? They are protecting her from going to jail. And she doesnt want to anger the president by saying
And thats whats happening, folks. Were going to have a whole different thing. Remember this about Obama. I always thought one thing -- I never thought hed be a good president. I thought hed be a great, really, healer. I thought hed bring the country together. I thought he was going to be a good cheerleader.
Hes been a disaster cheerleader.
No, no. I know what she said. Its, you know, hey, a lot of people say that, by the way.
But I thought it would bring the country together. He cant bring the country together. Its not -- its not there. Hes brought the country, and hes divided the country -- wealthy, less than wealthy, white, black. Hes absolutely been the great divider. Hes been a terrible president. Hillary Clinton will be worse, believe me. Shes going to be worse. Shes going to be worse.
She has a chance of being far worse. I mean, look at the deals. Look at the Libya deal. Look at it. And do you know who has that great Libyan oil? You know, its among the finest oils in the world, right? Its high-oct, its sweet. It is one of the fine oils in the world. You know who has it now? ISIS has it. ISIS.
Without that raid, you dont have Benghazi. I met with the fiance of the ambassador who was killed, yesterday. Shes supporting Trump, a very nice woman. And she tells me stories about Hillary that are unbelievable, unbelievable; horrible stories about Hillary.
I mean, I said, Are you sure youre supporting me?" Because I assumed shed be like on the Democrat side. And she said
And remember the ads, the phony ads with Hillary? Who do you want answering your phone at three oclock in the morning?" She was sleeping. She was sleeping. She was sound asleep
You know, I say it was a terrible thing. And Benghazi has never really been picked up like it should be picked up because the press has never picked it up.
So heres the story, folks. Its an honor that youre here in this kind of heat. I know a number of you went down. I love you all. But Ill tell you what, youre going to be so happy, so proud. Youve got to go out on June 7th. Youve got to go out. Youve got to go out.
Youve got to vote. Because were sending a mandate. Thats a mandate. We already won. And were now ahead by millions and millions of votes above the people that came in second. I wont even tell you who it is. But were ahead by millions of votes.
But the more we have and the bigger the mandate we have, the stronger the movement is going to be. And then most importantly, get every one of your friends and in November, you have to go and vote. Ill be back. Ill be back. But in November -- in November, you have to go and vote.
Let me just tell you were going to start winning again. Were going to win with our military. And we are going to knock the hell out of ISIS because we have no  no . And its going to go a lot faster and a lot easier than people understand. Were going to knock the hell out of them.
Were going to have strong borders. Were going to have the wall. Were going to be proud of our country again. Were going to make great trade deals. Were going to get rid of Common Core -- bring education locally. Were going to repeal Obamacare. Sixty percent -- think of it in Texas -- 60 percent Blue Cross Blue Shield -- 60 percent increase. Sixty. And its going to be worse than that for other sections. November 1st they have to announce it. Worse. And dont let them take that November 1st announcement and make it December. Because that alone will destroy their chances of winning the presidency. Remember, dont let that happen, because theyre trying to do it. They want to have a later announcement day.
So were going to start winning with so many different elements of life and of our country. Were going to save our Second Amendment. Hillary Clinton wants to abolish it. Believe me. She wants to abolish our Second Amendment. Were going to save our Second Amendment.
And were going to win. Were going to win at every single level. I often joke -- I joke. I have fun but its really not joking. Its fact where I say were going to win, win, win -- were going to win so much. Friends of mine -- I have three or four friends, great friends in the audience, and I say theyre going to come see me in the White House. Mr. President
And Im going to say, Im sorry. Were going to win
Remember this folks: America first. We dont put America first. We have these horrible, horrible trade negotiators. I actually think theyre not as stupid as people think. I think that they actually want to help everybody else. They want to help everybody but our country. We are going to have a policy of America first. Make America first. Make America great again. We will do it. Get out on the seventh and vote and boy you better vote in November.
