Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in St. Augustine, FL|October 24, 2016
Thank you, everybody. Thank you.
Look up there. Its Honest Abe Lincoln. Look at that. Wow. Thats Honest Abe.
Great to see you, Abe.
Boy oh boy, what a crowd.
We have...
We have people over there standing in plants. Theyre in plants.
I hope youre comfortable.
Its great to be here in St. Augustine. What a great place.
Great to be back in Florida. I love Florida. This is my second home. Im here all the time.
And just in case you havent heard, were winning -- not only Florida but were gonna win the whole thing.
The new poll that just came out from Investors Business Daily, which was the most accurate poll from the last three presidential elections, has us up 2 points nationwide.
What we have is we have a movement like theyve never seen before. We have some very, very unhappy people out there. Ill tell you, when they hear this they are not happy.
But were gonna take our nation back, remember it. Were gonna bring it back.
Its enough.
Its enough.
You heard where they have two more hostages in Iran and theyre asking for billions of dollars. Its enough.
Early voting in Florida begins today, through the 5th. So make sure you get out and vote.
Locations include City Hall and the Supervisor of Elections Office. You gotta get out there.
Whos voted already?
Thats not bad. Well, you can do it early, because if youre not feeling well on the 8th of November, we dont wanna take a chance. But if youre not feeling well, get up and vote. Who cares, right?
Seventy-five percent of the American people, based on all polls, think our country is headed on the wrong track. And were going to fix it.
Common sense. Our country is going to be put back on the right track and very, very quickly. And youre gonna be very proud of your country again. Youre gonna be happy.
Together, were going to fix our rigged system and deliver real change that once again puts America first.
Change has to come from the outside or were never really going to understand it. And I will tell you, Ive been on the inside. And the day I announced, June 16th of last year, I became a person on the outside.
But we have to fix our country. We have to fix our country.
The fact that the Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop our campaign, is only more proof that our campaign represents the kind of change that only arrives once in a lifetime. And its true.
Again, there has never been a movement like this in the history of our country. And even those pundits that dislike me and dislike you and dislike everybody, they will admit, and they do admit, they have never seen anything like this before.
And waitll you see the results start to come in. The results are already starting: Were way ahead in Ohio, were way ahead in Iowa, were going great in North Carolina.
Because people of this country are fed up with stupidity and weakness, and we cant beat ISIS, and all of the problems that weve got going. Theyre fed up.
And you know what else? Theyre fed up with losing their jobs to other countries all the time.
The best evidence that our system is rigged is the fact that Hillary Clinton, despite her many crimes, was even allowed to run for president in the first place.
True.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 e-mails, lied to Congress under oath, made 13 telephones disappear, some with a hammer, and then told the FBI she couldnt remember 39 different times.
That the leadership of the FBI and the Department of Justice let Clinton off the hook for her crimes against our nation is one of the saddest moments in the history of our country.
And we have to investigate the investigation, folks.
Just today, there are shocking new revelations -- which youve seen -- front page of the Wall Street Journal, about how the Clinton campaign has corrupted our government. It was just learned that one of the closest people to Hillary Clinton, with long-standing ties to her husband and herself, gave more -- this just came out -- gave more than $675,000 to the campaign of the spouse, the wife of the top FBI official who helped oversee the investigation into Mrs. Clintons illegal email server.
So the man that was investigating her from the FBI, his wife runs for office and they give her more than $675,000 to run. And it just came out. They just figured it out.
Weve never had a thing like this in the history of this country. This represented a large portion of the money the FBI officials spouse had for the entire campaign. A big, big percentage. Its absolutely disgraceful, its absolutely terrible. And its unbelievable how Hillary Clinton got away with the email lie, the email scam, the email corruption, but now at least we have a pretty good idea.
And General Cartwright, a four -- think of this -- a four-star general, highly respected, just at the end of last week struck a deal. He lied one time to the FBI and he said he did that for national security reasons -- highly respected man, four-star. Were talking about a four-star general and hes going to go to jail perhaps for as much as five years. And thats a tiny fraction of what Hillary Clinton did.
So the fact that she is even allowed to run means our system is rigged. She never had a chance of being convicted. Hillary knew this money was being paid and she has to be held accountable for this. Yet another crime, one of so many. And she has to be held accountable because she knew that money, $675,000 plus, was being paid. So how is she allowed to continue to run for president? How is she allowed?
She gets a subpoena from the United States Congress asking for her emails and other records and she bleaches them and deletes them. Now, bleaching nobody ever heard of. People -- sophisticated people in that world -- and the reason its so expensive to do it. So not only did they delete them, they bleached them. And now, two weeks ago, they find out that two boxes of emails are missing. And you dont read about that in the New York Times and you dont read about that in the other newspapers because the system is corrupt, the system is broken.
The system is corrupt, folks, and Ive been saying its rigged. Ive been saying it for a long time. The system is rigged. WikiLeaks also shows how John Podesta rigged the polls by oversampling Democrats, a voter-suppression technique. And thats happening to me all the time. When the polls are even, when they leave them alone and do them properly, Im leading. But you see these polls where theyre polling Democrats, hows Trump doing? Oh, hes down. Theyre polling Democrats.
The system is corrupt and its rigged and its broken and were going to change it.
Thank you. In an e-mail, Podesta says that he wants oversamples for our polling in order to maximize what we get out of our media polling. Its called voter suppression because people will say oh, gee Trumps out. Well, folks were winning, were winning, were winning.
These thieves and crooks, the media -- not all of it, not all of it, but much of it.
Theyre the most crooked -- theyre almost as crooked as Hillary. They may even be more crooked than Hillary because without the media, she would be nothing. Without the media, Hillary Clinton would be nothing. Theyre disgraceful. Just remember that, just remember that. Without the dishonesty and deceit of the media, Hillary Clinton would be nothing, nothing.
Heres how all of this affects you. When the people who control the political power in our society can rig investigations like her investigation was rigged, can rig polls -- you see these phony polls -- and rig the media, they can wield absolute power over your life, your economy and your country and benefit big time by it.
They control what you hear and what you dont hear, what is covered, how its covered, even if its covered at all. Sometimes, Ill have like these great events and it wont be covered. If theres a little glitch, its front page news all over the world. They can ship your jobs all over the world, let drugs pour into your -- look at the drugs that are pouring into this area, but all over -- let drugs pour into your community and let Congress write loopholes to benefit a select few.
And then you always hear Hillary, shes gonna fight ISIS. Well, shes been there for a long time. She and Obama threw their incompetence and this guy, all he does is campaign. He ought to go back and trying to get some jobs for our country. All he does is campaign.
We have an incompetent president. We have a president that doesnt know what hes doing. And again, take a look at Mosul. They announced four months ago, three months ago, were going into Mosul. Were gonna get the leaders of ISIS because theyre living in Mosul. Guess what? Twelve minutes later, the leaders -- they left. Theyre not stupid, they left. Whatever happened, remember the great general who was called the element of surprise, the element of surprise.
So now, were bogged out in Mosul. The enemy is much tougher than they thought. Theyve had a lot of time to get ready. Theyre using human shields all over the place. Its a horrible, horrible situation thats going on.
Why did we have to tell them were going in? Why didnt we go in and then tell the public a week later, congratulations we just got the leadership. We didnt lose many people. Im telling you, folks. Our leadership -- I went to an Ivy League school. But theres some words that you cant describe any better. Our leadership is stupid, these are stupid people.
So bad. These are stupid, stupid people and theyre leading us right down the tubes. The corrupt system can also force brave National Guardsmen from California to return the bonuses they were promised, something that would never happen under a Trump administration. How about that one? These people, We want your money back that we gave you years ago."""o bad. These are stupid
This can only happen with these incompetent people we have running and people with no common sense. Theyre incompetent, but they have no common sense. They have no common sense. While the media and politicians celebrate in Washington D.C., our inner cities crumble, innocent children are shot in the street and working families who just want a raise cant get a break. The media isnt just against me, theyre against all of you.
Thats really what theyre against. Theyre not against me, theyre against what we represent.
Like Hillary Clinton, they look down on the hardworking people of the country. Thats whats happened. The media is entitled, condescending and even contemptuous of the people who dont share their elitist views. And this is all for money. This is for money, largely, money and power. I see you and I hear you. I am your voice. Remember...
Remember, I was on the other side of this equation for a long time. It was very comfortable, it was a very good side, but then I decided that -- you know, Ill tell you the bottom line. I love our country and we were going bad. We were going bad.
I will never let you be the forgotten people again. Were the forgotten people. I will never let you down, I promise. I will never, ever let you down.
When we win, your voice will boom through the halls of Washington and will be heard all across the world. This is bigger than Brexit whats going on. This is bigger than Brexit.
And folks, get out and vote. Leave here and vote. Leave here and vote or we have wasted a hell of a lot of time, energy, and in my case, a lot of money. Im not a politician and I never wanted to be a politician, believe me. I ran because this country has been good to me, I love America, I could not stand by and watch what was happening to our great country. I didnt want to do it.
My only special interest is you, the American people, and were going to solve the riddle of whats going on in Washington. Its time to clean up our nations capital. Thats why I proposed a contract with the American voter. Its a set of promises for what Ill do in my first 100 days. It includes getting rid of immediately Obamacare, which is a disaster.
Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world. Quote, craziest thing in the world" where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. Now
But you know what else? Its not working. Its no good. Its terrible healthcare and you know your numbers are so crazy, you really cant use it. Your deductibles are so high youll never get to use it. Its just one more reason why we have to win on November 8th.
My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end the rampant government corruption and put the special interests out of business. Were going to do it.
I understand it. I understand it very well. I want everyone in Washington to hear and to heed the words that we all say together. If we win on November 8th, we are going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. Were draining the swamp.
Under my contract on my first day in office, my administration will immediately pursue the following six measures to make our government honest once again.
First, a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.
Second, a hiring freeze on all non-essential federal employees. And that does not include the military, believe me.
Third, a requirement that for every new federal regulation, two existing regulations must be eliminated. Regulations are putting us out of business.
Fourth, a five-year ban on White House and congressional officials becoming lobbyists after they leave government service. Theyre making a fortune. They control government.
Fifth, a lifetime ban on White House officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government. How simple?
And sixth, a complete ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections.
On the same day, I will begin taking the following seven actions to protect our American workers. Our jobs are being stolen. The single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Thats whats happened to our country because of our politicians. And in some cases it is not just lack of intelligence, its not just stupidity. In some cases, its because theyre getting so much money from donors and special interests that they want to do it. They dont care about our country.
I love you!
First, I will announce -- I love you, too.
My intention to re-negotiate NAFTA.
The worst economic trade deal ever signed in the history of the world also, or withdraw from the deal and well start something thats going to be much, much better.
Second, I will announce our withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a disaster, a disaster.
Third, I will direct my secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator. They are. They know it.
I have a great relationship with China. Ive made a lot of money with China. But you know what? They know. They told me. Thats how they do it. Its the single greatest tool they have, currency manipulation, and theyre grand masters. They do a great job. I congratulate them. Im not angry at China. Im angry at our country for allowing them to do it. OK? I am not angry at China.
Fourth, I will direct the secretary of commerce and U.S. trade representative to use every tool under American and international law to end foreign trade abuses that hurt the American worker, of which there are many things.
Fifth, I will lift the restrictions on the production of shale, oil, natural gas and clean oil.
We -- we will also put our miners back to work and we will develop clean coal. Our miners have been treated badly. Clean coal.
Six, approve vital energy infrastructure projects like the Keystone Pipeline. A lot of jobs, a lot of good things.
Seven, cancel billions in payments to U.N. climate change programs. Now, think of this...
We paid billions and use the money to fix Americas water and environmental infrastructure, not throw it out the window.
Additionally, on the first day, I will take the following five actions to restore security and the constitutional rule of law. And I just met with your great sheriffs and your great law enforcement people and your firefighters.
Your first responders, these are great people.
These are great people. First, cancel every unconstitutional executive action or executive order, memorandum issued by President Obama.
Where are he and Michelle campaigning today? Where are they? Wouldnt you rather see them like in that White House figuring out how to knock the hell out of ISIS? Wouldnt you rather have them in the White House like working hard so that Mexico stops stealing our companies and therefore our jobs?
Wouldnt it be great -- wouldnt it be great if they could come up with a great healthcare program instead of one where your numbers are 70, 80, even 90 percent more than they were just recently? You know, you have increases in Obamacare that are going through the roof, its out of control.
By the way, just so you understand, its a dead program. Its unaffordable. Hillary wants to throw more money at it to keep it going, its a dead program and its putting our businesses out. Id love to see him in the White House working instead of campaigning for crooked Hillary Clinton, Ill be honest.
Remember what he said? Donald Trump will never win the Republican primary, he will never do that.
Sorry, sorry.
He will never win.
The Republicans will never do that. Well, they did it. Sorry. And what happened? We got the most votes in the history of the Republican primary system; over 14 million votes.
Forty-two states.
Second, begin the process of selecting a replacement for Justice Scalia, great man, from one of the 20 judges on my list, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Third, cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.
How bad is that?
Fourth, begin swiftly to remove all criminal aliens from our country.
So we have many illegal immigrants in our country who are criminals, convicted criminals, murderers, drug lords, gang members. And what happened during Hillary Clintons stay during the -- her secretary of State days, people would take them out -- because I tell you what, these border patrol agents and ICE agents, theyre great people. They want to do the job but theyre told, Stand back."""o we have ma"
But these were bad. And theyd bring them back to their country, and very intelligently, because they know who theyre dealing with, they say, We dont want them." They dont want drug kingpins
So they turn around, and they say, Madam Secretary

That will be the next great Trojan horse. You watch. Watch what happens.
