Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Macon, Georgia|November 4, 2018
Wow. Wow. Wow.  Thank you very much, Georgia. This is like being at a Georgia football game. This is incredible. Wow. Man. I only wish the media was back about 200 yards so that all those people behind them could see. And we have 15,000 people in a different location. I think Brians going to do very well.
Going to do very well. Im thrilled to be back in this great state that, by the way, we won very easily in 2016. With thousands of hard-working and wonderful American patriots. And thats what you are. In just two days, the people of Georgia are going to elect Brian Kemp... as your next governor to protect your jobs, defend your borders, fight for your values and continue to make America great again.
This is one of the most important elections of our lifetime. This is a very important election. I wouldnt say its as important as 2016, but its right up there. Its right up there. It really is. Its become so incredible and there is electricity in the air like I havent seen since the 2016 big victory that we all had together.
Incredible electricity. And in fact, speaking of that, could I ask -- look at this. Its like the Academy Awards. Look at how many cameras. Could I ask you to turn around and shoot? They dont have to do this with other celebrities when they come here that dont have very big crowds. Look at the people back there.
Shoot it. Youve got to shoot it. Turn around. Turn around. Turn the cameras around. They never turn them around, folks. They never turn them around. They never turn them around. This crowd goes way, way, way back into the field. This is incredible. This is incredible and I really wish the fake news media would show the crowds because they dont do it. They always go, Donald Trump gave a speech today in front of a nice crowd.
There have never been crowds like this, just so you understand, in the history of politics. Youve never had crowds like this for midterm elections. Theres never been crowds like this. But you know, all the people, a lot of them watching on television, they get great ratings, at least this speech does. I cant say about the other ones because they dont get great ratings, but you know what?
They get it because they hear the noise. You cant duplicate when you have 20,000, 25,000, 30,000 people, you cant duplicate that sound with 500 people like that are showing up to other rallies. You know, for two years, we had -- weve had big crowds from the beginning, right? And by the way, you remember, we never left and its we not me. Its we. Were apart.
Were all the same. We. We never left center stage. You know what that means, right? We were always in first place and then we went against crooked Hillary and we did very well there also But we never left center stage.  What a group. What a group. Youre great people. Youre great people.
I want to tell you, you built this country, folks. You built this country. Youre great people. But we never did. We never left center stage. Every debate, I was right in the middle. That meant you always had the highest number. You always had the highest number. You were always at -- and I always insisted on having an odd number in the debate.
Do you know why? Because I wanted to be center. I didnt want there to be two people center, right? Does that make ... Does that make sense? It makes sense. And during our rallies, we always had these massive, the biggest -- the biggest theyve ever seen. And I always used to say, "Turn the camera around and show." They never did because theyre fake news.
They dont want to show. And Id always say, "Turn the camera around." And Ill never forget. I went through four or five and they just wouldnt show these massive crowds from the very beginning, right? Right from the beginning. And then what happened is there were some protesters in one rally, like two people that live in a basement of their parents house.
And I thought the camera was very new and you couldnt change them. You know, theyre very rigid. Theres steel stuff and you couldnt change them. You couldnt turn the. And then we had a little protest in the back corner which was impossible for a camera to see. And those cameras, they looked like pretzels the way they turned.
When they saw trouble, they were able to turn, but thats the way the press treats us and I hope you show the real crowd thats here today. And I hope you show ... And I hope you show the thousands of people that are in other part of the airport watching this on television. Thousands and thousands of additional people.
Theyll say, "President Trump and former president Obama had wonderful crowds." Lets sort of -- lets sort of come in. But this election will decide whether we build on this extraordinary prosperity that weve created. Did you see the numbers on Friday? Did you see those numbers? Or whether we let the radical Democrats take a giant wrecking ball to our economy and to our future.
America now has the best economy in the history of our country. And it can be destroyed very quickly. Thats why you have to get to the polls. In the last month alone, we added 250,000 jobs and that is despite the hurricane, which also hit a chunk of Georgia. Those Georgia farmers, I met with them. I was with Sonny Perdue... our great Agricultural Secretary and I met with a lot of the farmers and these are great people.
Ill never forget it, actually. These are great, great people and one of them said, "Sir, Ive been growing cotton for 25 years. This is the best crop Ive ever grown. I had some problems over the last two or three years, but this is going to take care of all of my problems." And then the hurricane came and in four hours there was nothing left and it was true.
There was nothing. It was gone. All the best cotton that Ive ever grown. Now, I assume thats a man that knows cotton and Im saying what does the best cotton mean? If I ever said that, theyd say, "What is he talking about?" The best cotton Ive ever seen. Sounded like Trump actually. But -- but he meant this was the best crop hes ever grown and it was good and then boom, it was gone.
And I told Sonny Perdue who loves you, who was your governor, as you know... and a popular governor. And a popular governor. I guess hed still be governor if they didnt have term limits. Sonny was a great, popular governor and hes now the Secretary of Agriculture and I told him, "Were helping those farmers in Georgia." And by the way, Alabama got hit.
Florida, did Florida get hit or what? And were helping them all. Were helping our farmers a lot. In addition to the deal we made with Canada, Mexico, its a -- were helping our farmers. Were going to get them over this because they got really hit hard. They got wiped out and were going to help them.
Great people. Great people. Since election day, we have created 4.5 million new jobs... and we have lifted 4.3 million people off of food stamps. Think of that. Jobless claims in Georgia just fell to their lowest level in 45 years. More Georgia workers are employed today then at any time or any point in American history.
Think of that. You want to see that end quickly? You want to see Georgia prosperity end quickly? Vote for the Democrat. Shell end it quickly. She will end it quickly and shell double up your taxes and a lot of bad things will happen. We passed a massive tax cut for Georgia families and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle-class.
Were working on that now. Here in Georgia, the great news just keeps rolling in. Jobs are going up. Crime is going down. Wages are rising, first time in many years. You saw that in the report on Friday. Poverty is plummeting and confidence is at an all-time high. Other than that, were not doing very well.
Under Republican leadership, Georgia is safer, Georgia is stronger and Georgia is winning like never before. And Ill tell you what, I know Brian. He will take it to new heights, heights that you wouldnt even believe. I know him. This guy doesnt stop, which is what you want. Hes an incredible manager.
Hes been successful all the way up and down the line. This man will bring it to heights that you wouldnt believe, even today with those great numbers. And to protect your rights and freedoms, we overcame the Democrat smear campaign and confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh.
Boy, did he get treated badly. The Democrats treated him so badly, so unfair. And did you see what happened on Friday? You know what Im talking about,right? They knew -- you knew that before. You knew that these three women, they knew that before. They knew that a long time ago. So, a woman, who accused then Judge Kavanaugh of horrible, horrible crimes... admitted that actually she never met Judge Kavanaugh or Brett Kavanaugh or Kavanaugh period.
Never met him, never saw him and the act never happened and it was a lie. It was a total lie. She made up the story and she was forced to admit it.  It was a false accusation, it was a false statement and she was forced to admit it. Can you imagine? This man, for 10 years, I wasnt -- who knew I was going to do this?
I was happily building buildings in Manhattan, having a good time, having a nice, simple life. A nice, simple life ... And then I said to my beautiful first lady ... And I said, "What the hell. Lets give it a shot," and look what happened. Look what happened. And look what happened. Now, and were doing -- were doing things for our country that havent been done in 100 years.
What were doing, were turning it around. By the way, when I came in -- actually this happens all the time, but when I came in backstage, a very powerful, strong guy was saying ...  Thank you very much. A very, very powerful guy, a big strong guy, with tears coming down on his face said, "Thank you, Mr. President for saving our country." This happens all the time.
This happens all the time. Thank you. Tears, tears. I said, "When was the last time you cried?" He said, "I dont know that I ever cried." Even as a baby, this guy didnt cry, but he was crying backstage. I mean, tears are coming down, thanking me. And its true. We turned the country around. The country was going down.
But think in terms of Justice Kavanaugh. Think if he didnt get the appointment based on this womans false accusations. Think of it. Think of it. Just think of it, how horrible that was. I think this was number four. And by the way, what about the other ones? How about the other ones, folks? This was number four.
Youll see others now, but how about the other ones? But, listen to this. So supposing this was the final straw and the Democrats who were -- who were so bad, who were so disrespectful, who were so horrible, right? How about the leak? How about Dianne Feinstein with the leak? I dont know. I dont know. I dont know about the leak Remember?
Remember when she went, "No, I dont know. Did we leak? did we leak?" John Cornyn asked the question. He asked her, boom, "Did you leak?" "No. No, let me check. No. No, we didnt leak. We didnt." I always say that may be the worst body language Ive ever seen in my life, right? She leaked. In other words, she leaked.
But it was terrible the way he got treated and now this woman comes forward, says, "I never met him and it was a false story, false statements. I lied." She said, "I lied," and he could have lost a judgeship on a story that was made up and the way the Democrats treated him and us, youve got to get to the polls on Tuesday and youve got to vote.
The contrast in this election could not be more clear. Republicans produce jobs. Democrats produce mobs. Youve heard that. Youve seen it. Youve seen it. Youve seen it. Antifa. They the helmet off and they take the arm bands and you see these little arms, you see these little arms. And then you see the clubs in their hands.
You know, theyre tough guys, right? Where are the bikers for Trump? Where are the police? Where are the military? Where are the ICE? Where are the border patrol? No. No. Weve taken a lot. Weve taken a lot, folks. But, you see these guys, you take off their helmet, their black helmet, their black outfit with the pads.
Theyre all tough guys and theyre swinging clubs viciously. They couldnt care less who they hit. These are bad people. These are people causing problems and the press doesnt want to talk about them. If the radical resistance, and thats what they are, radical resistance, takes power, they will move immediately to reverse Americas progress and to eradicate all of the gains that weve made.
The Democrat party wants to raise your taxes, restore immediately job killing regulations. They want to take away and destroy your health care because thats whats going to happen, impose socialism and totally erase Americas borders. How about that caravan? Do you want to let that caravan just pour in? I dont think so. So we started the wall.
$1.6 billion. Another $1.6 billion just approved. Were building it in pieces and chunks, but I want to build it all at one time. In the meantime, you saw last week I called up the United States military. Were not playing games, folks. Theres no games. Because you look at whats marching up, thats an invasion.
Thats not -- thats an invasion. And a lot of things happening. You know, ask yourself, how do you think that formed? And did you see the second caravan?And we pay these countries, by the way, Honduras, El Salvador, we pay these countries hundreds of millions of dollars which, by the way, well be stopping very soon, OK? They dont do a damn thing.
They dont do a damn thing for us. We called up -- I asked Vice President Mike Pence to call up the head of Honduras, to call up the heads of all -- he called them. He said, "Listen, we dont want you to allow the formation of caravans in your country. We pay you hundreds of millions of dollars a year, which is probably just stolen, and we dont want it. And you know what?
Absolutely, we will fight -- in the meantime, nothing. They do nothing for us. Democrats want to invite caravan after caravan of a legal aliens to pour into our country. These are the same caravans that have violently overrun Mexican soldiers and police. You saw this. Were not dealing with babies here, folks.
You know, every time I say, "You have some rough people in there," the media says, "How dare you. We want to see proof." Well, they gave you 300 names yesterday. These are rough, rough people in many cases and if theyre allowed to breakthrough our borders, only larger and bigger, we have emboldened these people.
Its not going to happen. And by the way, you saw how good our military -- they got off those planes. I had so many calls and I had so many people ... And we look at those soldiers and you saw that barbed wire going up, that barbed wire. Yes, sir. We have barbed wire going up because you know what? Were not letting these people invade our country.
We want them to come in. We want them to come in, but they have to come in legally. They have to come in legally. And thats why Im sending a message today to the caravans, to the criminals, to the human traffickers -- do you believe, human trafficking, because of the internet. is more prevalent today than it ever was in the history of our world.
This is a worldwide, unbelievable problem. Who would think were talking about this? You think of that from 500 years ago. Because of the internet, worse today than its ever been. And were not letting in the smugglers. So turn back now because youre not coming into the United States unless you go through the process.
Turn back. So if you want more caravans and you want more crime, vote Democrat. Its very simple. If you want strong borders and safe communities, vote Republican. And by the way, I saw him backstage. I said Im going to bring him out just for a second. Hes a really good guy. I met him years ago and I know you really like him.
Hes a Georgia legend who truly knows about winning. He led the Georgia team to a national championship. Coach Vince Dooley. Vince, come up here, coach.
Thank you. President Trump, thanks for coming to Georgia and supporting Brian Kemp for our governor. Brian grew up with our family. We have known him since he was 10-15 years old. My wifes best friend is Brians mother. A football player, my son, played side-by-side as the offensive guard and tackle with a total weight of about 180 pounds a piece.
They werent going kill them today. But President Trump, thanks for keeping your promises.
Thank you, coach. Thank you.
Thanks for all youve done and God bless America. And one other thing. I talked to Herschel ... And Herschel Brian -- Herschel supports Brian and youll be hearing from him in the next day or two. Hes going to be here. God bless America.
Thank you, coach. Thank you, coach. And the coach is right about the great Herschel Walker. He has given me his support from day one and I understand he just endorsed Brian. And Herschel, you couldnt stop Herschel. Remember that? I remember in his day at Georgia, they wrote a ballad, right? The ballad to Herschel Walker.
It was pretty easy to coach that team, though, coach. What you did is you took the snap and handed it to Herschel. Ten yards, 10 yards, 20 yards, 30 yards. And then everyone on that team went into the NFL. They said, well -- but Ill tell you, Herschel Walkers been great and hes been a tremendous friend of all of us. And that was some football player.
And you have a great team this year, but... but -- but having Herschel, wouldnt be bad, right? Having Herschel. Thank you very much. And were grateful to be joined also by a man whos really done a terrific job as your governor, Nathan Deal. Nathan? Thank you, Nathan. Thank you, Nathan. Nathan Deal. Thank you, Nathan.
And here with us today is a man we all know. He has been such a tremendous help to me and the United States Senate. Whenever theres something tough, everybody tends tends to go to David Perdue because he gets it done. Thank you, David. Thank you very much. Thanks, David. What a great guy. And also Sonny Perdue.
Where is Sonny? Where is Sonny? Where the hell -- Sonny, youve done a great job. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Sonny. Great job, sonny. Were going to get the money for those farmers in Georgia, Sonny? We may have to come up with some new rules, but well get you there, right, Sonny? Well get you there because whats not -- you know, its amazing.
You know whats amazing? We give billions and billions of dollars to these foreign countries that dont give a damn about us and we cant get a couple of bucks to farmers that got wiped out by a hurricane and were going to take care of our farmers ... In Alabama, South Carolina, North Carolina, OK? I just put a lot of pressure on Sonny, but he can handle it, right?
He can handle it, David, right? And we are joined by many fantastic Republican members of Congress. I hear theyre all doing very well. They dont even have to be introduced. Theyre doing really well, but you know what? Lets not take a chance. Go out and vote. Ive heard before how well people are doing and then, you know, people say, "We dont have to. Theyre doing so well," and then bad things happen.
Go out and vote. Congressman Buddy Carter ... Buddy, thank you, Buddy. Thank you, Buddy. A terrific guy. All of them. These people helped us so much with tax cuts and regulation cuts. Congressman Drew Ferguson. Drew ... Thanks, Drew. Great job, Drew. Austin Scott. Thanks, Austin. Hes got the make farmers great again hat.
Hes got the green hat. Thats called make farmers great again. Thats what weve done with our new deals with Canada, with South Korea, with Mexico. Remember, they said we wouldnt get them done? We got them done and they understood, if we didnt get them done, we were just going to have to tariff all their product coming in, so we got them done.
And they were great Jody Hice. Jody. Great job. Thank you for all of the help. Thanks, Jody. Great job. Barry Loudermilk. Barry. These are all guys -- theyre winning by so much. Usually, I have to tell long stories about each one. In other words, get -- with these guys -- but you still want people to get out and vote, right?
right, Barry? Rick Allen. Rick. Rick. Thanks, Rick. Thanks, Rick. And Tom Graves. Great people. Thank you, Tom. Thank you. You have great people. If you dont want to be saying "Speaker Pelosi" for the next two years... get out and vote. And I will tell you, you dont hear this thing too much about the blue wave anymore, do you notice?
You know, about a month ago, two months ago, I was hearing about this horrendous blue wave. Its going to sweep us all out. Its going to be terrible. I havent heard the term "blue wave," but you better get out and vote, otherwise Im going to look very bad with this statement, right? This Tuesday, the people of Georgia are going to head to the polls to choose your next governor and I think most of you know how important that decision will be. Brian Kemp is an incredible fighter and a tireless champion for the people and for the values of Georgia and he was with me right from the beginning.
I read an article. They said, "He was with Trump from the moment he was Donald Trump and Melania come down the escalator in Trump Tower. Thats when he was with him." I like those people. He will keep your jobs and wages rising, which is whats happening. He will provide great schools and health care for your loved ones and he will keep your family safe.
So important. Brian will always stand behind our military and he has. He will stand behind our vets. More importantly, he loves our vets. Hes talked to -- he talks to me about the vets. He talks to me about the vets a lot. Sometimes I say, "Brian, weve got to talk about another subject. Please, Brian." And we got Veterans Choice passed, by the way.
Hes always behind our police and our law enforcement and he will never let anything bad happen to our second amendment, which, believe me, is under siege. Our second amendment. Our second amendment. If Stacey Abrams gets in, your second amendment is... is gone, gone. Stacey and her friends will get rid of it. You wouldnt mind if somebody comes knocking on your door, "Please, Id like to have your guns turned over to government." Take your guns away.
Please give us all guns right now. Brians opponent, Stacey Abrams, is one of the most extreme, far left politicians in the entire country. You know that. She wants to raise your income tax very substantially. She wants to raise your property tax very substantially, right through the roof. She supports a socialist takeover of health care which means you will never be able to see your doctor, just like the vets never got to see their doctor and just like President Obama -- Im going to be very nice -- did not tell the truth when he says you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan.
He said it 28 times ... And it wasnt true. You put Stacey in there and youre going to have Georgia turn into Venezuela. I dont think the people of Georgia like that. And Stacey Abrams, and I spoke to law enforcement, I spoke to everybody, is really weak on crime, really weak on crime. Thats not what you need.
She wants to end the death penalty... for even the most vicious and ruthless killers. Stacey Abrams voted against tougher penalties for violent criminals who assault our police officers. Stacey Abrams wants to turn your wonderful state into a giant sanctuary city for criminal aliens... putting innocent Georgia families at the mercy of hardened criminals and predators.
Abrams voted in favor of allowing illegal aliens to receive public benefits. Thats wonderful. She even -- listen to this -- voted to let illegal aliens hold public office. Isnt that wonderful? And Stacey Abrams wants illegal aliens to vote. You know, thats one of the big deals here. They like them coming in because were winning and they figure if enough of them come in, eventually theyll be able to vote and theyre going to vote for the Democrats, right?
We cant let this happen. For other reasons, too, but we cant let that happen. She opposed requiring proof of American citizenship at the ballot box... and she recently said she wants illegal aliens to be part of her blue wave. I think her blue waves not going to happen. And she brought Oprah here to help her.
And you know, Oprah was a friend of mine until I ran for office. Once I ran for office, we diverged slightly. In fact. you know what? I think the media will check this. Look at all those cameras. Thats terrible. A lot of people said, it should be frightening every day having to speak in front -- and theyre looking.
One little mistake, one little stutter, one little accidentally saying a wrong word, its a major headline. Its a major headline. One little ... One little, tiny -- a little bit of a mispronunciation of a word, its front-page news all over the world. You know what? You know what? The bottom line, just dont make any mistakes.
But anyway, so Oprah -- and Oprahs been down to Mar-a-Lago and honestly, we did. Until I ran for office, we were actually -- we did very well. We had a good relationship and I like Oprah. But you know what you dont know? Oprah, when she ended her show, had her five most important people, I assume, her last week.
You remember the last week? Well, I was on her full show in the last week. I think theyre trying to burn the tape. Are they trying to burn the tape? But Oprah was here to endorse Stacey and Im here to endorse Brian. And you know what? I hope youre going to listen to my endorsement. Stacey Abrams will make your schools and neighborhoods unsafe and she will make your jobs disappear like magic.
You know the magic wands that President Obama said, "Youll never get your manufacturing jobs back. Youd need a magic wand." Well, we did. We did. But all of these reasons and maybe the best reason of all, hes a great leader, hes a strong man, hes a strong personality, which you need, and he is somebody that will be a great governor of Georgia.
Brian Kemp, please come up.
Wow. Thank you so much. Well, thank you, Mr. President. Were so glad that you have Georgia on your mind. I was -- I was just thinking backstage about my opponents had -- you know, Obama and Hillary and Elizabeth Warren ... But weve got -- weve got Trump, Pence ... So we got -- we got Trump, Pence, Vince Dooley and Herschel Walker, the goal line stalker.
Mr. President, I do, on behalf of hard-working Georgians, want to thank you for your response to Hurricane Michael. I was on the ground down there, as you were and the Vice President was and Secretary Perdue, and Ive never been more prouder to be a Georgian, to see the federal, state and local response to our brothers and sisters in need.
Thank you very much. As you know, my opponent doesnt think a whole lot about farmers and people that work in hospitality, but you sure do. We also want to thank you for the tax cuts. Thats right. Because of that, with the leadership of Governor Deal, taxes were cut in Georgia last year and with your help, Im going to do it again next year.
We also appreciate you taking a chainsaw to government regulations at the federal level. Because of that, we are having record unemployment, record job growth, and I want to thank you for your huge endorsement in the primary. It made a big difference, as you remember. But I want to... but I want to thank you all for supporting -- I want to thank you all for supporting our President and I want to thank our President for standing up and fighting for our country and fighting for hard-working Georgians.
But as you ...  But as you -- as you all know, many times the states are the laboratories of democracy and the President needs some help at the state level from time to time. So I want to encourage you all to get out and vote on Tuesday, to talk to your friends, talk to your neighbors, get the vote out.
We will go to work as Georgia Republicans like weve done over the last 16 years under Governor Sonny Perdues leadership and Governor Nathan Deals leadership and well work hard with this president to continue to make America great again. Thank you.
Beautiful. Wow.  But it is true. I generally have been working for getting great senators elected, been working with David and everybody else, but were going for the senators. We do whatever we can for the congressmen and women and weve done that. But I havent done too much for governors.
This is an important race for Georgia. Im here -- I am here for Brian because the governor of Georgia means so much to our country, our country. So youve got to get out there. Youve got to get out there. And this is a very worthwhile stop. In addition, I happen to like the people of Georgia very much, so its not so bad.
It gives me a good excuse to say hello. If Democrats gain power on Tuesday, one of their very first projects will be the socialist takeover of American health care. You know what that means? It means long waits... and bad service and a lot of problems. And well go over that because they possibly will come up with that hopefully in their campaign.
The remaining left-leaning person, theyll come up with that and youll see what happens. You will not be happy. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare, itll eliminate Medicaid Advantage for more than 635,000 Georgia seniors who depend on it. Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it. And by the way, people dont realize this, who have paid for it. Thank you.
And very importantly, Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Were doing it. But Democrats like to spread false rumors. Theyre the ones that wont be able to because there will be nothing left when your system is obliterated. The Democrats plan to destroy health care. Also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for all of the illegal immigrants that they want to pour into our country.
As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders and destroy our nation, essentially, because, you know what? Without borders, we dont have a nation. We dont have a nation. The incredible thing, is over the years, weve been fighting so hard for other countries borders, but we dont protect our own border, but were protecting it now.
Even with the worst laws -- they are the worst laws. They have given us so little and the Democrats dont want to change the laws because they want this chaos at the borders. They think its good politically. I personally think its backfiring on them and I think maybe they made a big mistake. Illegal immigration costs our country far more then $100 billion every single year.
Thats more than double the entire state budget of Georgia. And illegal immigration is also deeply unfair to American workers, including African-American and Hispanic-American. You know that. African-American, Asian-American, Hispanic-American workers -- not fair. Not only do the Democrats open border policies drain our treasury, but they endanger every American community and you see that.
You see whats going on. Nearly 100 percent of the heroin in the United States enters through the southern border, along with roughly 90 percent of cocaine, the majority of meth and a substantial portion of the ultra lethal fentanyl killing our youth. These drugs have destroyed hundreds of thousands of lives last year and killed, last year alone, 70,000 Americans.
And they dont want to toughen up the immigration laws. I think theyre going to do very poorly at the ballot box, but I may be wrong. And they want to get rid of ICE. Elizabeth Warren wants to get rid of -- I dont -- I cant call her Pocahontas anymore because she has no Indian blood. Its a problem. She has no Indian blood.
I have more than she has and I have none. And I said that a long time ago, before I got -- before she brilliantly sent out the test results. That was not a good test, Elizabeth. That will be great leadership when dealing with North Korea, China, Russia, all of these countries that you have to deal with. That was not good.
Is she still running for president, Brian? Is she still ... Ill tell you, she is pushing a guy up -- a guy up in Ohio who will be a disaster for the state. We want Mike DeWine -- do you know, shes pushing somebody named Cordray in Ohio. He is a disaster. Hes worse than she is. Last year alone -- and Ohio was just too smart.
DeWine -- Ohio, if youre listening, DeWine -- they must be listening with all those cameras. DeWine, hell make a great -- hell make a great governor. So important. The governorships -- people really dont realize how important governorships are. I mean, they can destroy your state or make your state -- its state really great again.
They can destroy it, and quickly, or make it even better. Last year alone, our brave ICE officers arrested 127,000 aliens with criminal records. Think of that. Including those charged or convicted of approximately 48,000 assaults, 12,000 sex crimes and 1,800 murders. Now, do you believe those numbers? And by the way, ICE, these are really tough people, but theyre great.
They love our country and they are going in to towns and cities and places and they are throwing MS-13 gang members the hell out of our country by the thousands, by the thousands. And nobody here wants that job. Thats a tough job, but they like it and they do it great. And were going to protect them. The Democrats want to abolish ICE.
They want to release drug dealers and MS-13 gang members. Remember when Nancy Pelosi got angry at me because she thought I didnt speak well of MS-13 gang members? They cut them up. They go straight into your neighborhoods. We believe that any politician that puts criminal aliens before American citizens needs to be voted out of office very quickly or certainly not voted into office.
Republicans will always stand with the heroes of ICE, the border patrol and law enforcement. And you have great law enforcement in the state of Georgia. That I can tell you. This election is about safety and this election is about jobs. For years, you watched as we let foreign countries plunder our wealth, shut our factories and decimate our industries.
You were victims of it. Many of you were victims of it, but those days are over. Weve added nearly a half a million manufacturing jobs and thats going up to almost 600,000 very shortly. Remember, they were the jobs that wont happen anymore. They were the jobs that we would have needed the magic wand. Theyll never be brought back.
Ill tell you what, they are. Theyre among the best jobs any state or country could have and theyre pouring in. Last month alone, we added 32,000 manufacturing jobs. Thats 1,000 manufacturing jobs every single day. Nobody thought that was possible. I recently announced that we are replacing the horrible NAFTA deal with an incredible brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement.
The USMCA is a giant victory for Georgia farmers, manufacturers and dairy producers. A tremendous -- and they said it wouldnt happen. It happened. Were opening them up. Weve taken the toughest ever action to crackdown on Chinas abusive trade practices and were doing very well. Thats something that could also happen and if it doesnt happen, were going to do very well too.
After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. Thank you. Because we are now putting America first. We have also taken bold action to reduce the price of prescription drugs, Secretary Azar. Youll see them come down. You saw a month ago when the drug companies rose their prices very substantially and I said, "Get me the name of the head of Pfizer and Novartis," and I made some calls.
And they immediately dropped their price. "Yes, Mr. President. No, we were only kidding when we gave you that price, sir. We were only kidding, Mr.," -- and thats when I realized how powerful the presidency is. True. No, I thank Pfizer for doing that and Novartis and the others. They did it and it was great.
But youre going to see prices coming down. Were cutting out the middleman, the middleman and woman, I guess, right? Were cutting the middleman and the middlewoman and you know what? Im going to have a lot of people that hate me really badly, almost as bad as the left, almost as bad as the Democrats, if thats possible.
Almost as bad as the Democrats, but you know what well do? Well blame Russia, OK? Were going to blame Russia. OK? Lets blame Russia. After years of soaring Obamacare premiums, average premiums in Georgia this year are coming down. Were bringing them down. And what did we do? We got rid of the individual mandate which was a disaster for people.
And we very much defanged it and were running it properly and its being every week, more and more. Were doing a good job and you notice your premiums are not doing as badly as you ever thought. Its a lot better than you would have thought. We have defanged it and really -- its being decimated. We actually had it repealed and replaced, but we had one disappointing vote and we didnt get one vote from a Democrat.
We didnt get one vote from a Democrat. Slightly -- that was a slightly disappointing vote, folks, but it doesnt matter because were now doing it a little bit differently. Were doing it piecemeal and its working out just fine. Weve just introduced new, affordable health care plans for Georgia, individual markets that only cost about half the price of Obamacare and its, frankly, better insurance.
We passed Veterans Choice, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor rather than waiting on line for 10 days, for 20 days, for three months. They see a doctor, they take care of their -- I mean, literally, I say this all the time, people that were modestly ill, it takes them weeks and weeks to see a doctor and by the time they get there, theyre terminal.
Think of it. I mean, think of how horrible. Now, they go out, they see a doctor, they take care of themselves, we pay the bill and thats good. Our veterans. Thats for our veterans. And not that it matters in this case because the only thing that matters is the vet, but it also happens to save us a lot of money, if you can believe it. They get rid of this big problem and it saves us a lot of money.
You know, theyre waiting on line. Sometimes they wait three, four weeks. Can you imagine you cant see your doctor for three or four weeks? And longer. And we also passed the landmark V.A. accountability law to ensure everyone and anyone who mistreats our veterans will be held accountable and the minimum we do is say, youre fired.
Thats the minimum. We secured $716 billion, and last year $700 billion, to fully rebuild our great United States military. And we gave our incredible warriors their largest pay raise in more than a decade. And at my direction, the pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the american armed forces, the Space Force, which we need.
Which we need badly. We need badly. I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal. And Irans been a much different country. Has Iran been a different country for the last six months? Isnt that incredible? When I came in, it was just a question of how long would it take them to take over the whole Middle East.
They were going to look for the Mediterranean. That was a long ways -- they were for the Mediterranean. Theyre not looking anymore for the Mediterranean. We have recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. We have made extraordinary progress in so many ways, and yet were just getting started.
But the Democrats want to throw America in reverse and drag us backward to the failures and betrayals of the past, and thats what they were. You look at whats happened to our country over the last long period of time, we are going and were going in the wrong direction. But you know, now, when I have meetings with foreign leaders, with kings and queens and princes, and we meet on occasion with a president and prime minister, every one of them comes into the oval office, practically, and they say, before anything else, "I want to congratulate you on the incredible job youve done with the economy of the United States." Pretty amazing.
And were ahead of schedule, but I need you to vote for a Republican governor and a Republican congress and we have to get all of those votes. You know, this is the greatest political movement in the history of our country. I dont know if you know it. It is. And were all a part of it. Its not me. Its all of us. Were together.
But this is the greatest political movement in the history of our country, maybe ever. Theres never been anything like this, but we have to keep going because the changes weve made are incredible.  Thank you very much. Now, what weve done in a short period of time -- were way ahead of schedule, as you know, but weve got it turned and were starting to really -- its really getting better and better and were learning our way around Washington like you wouldnt believe.
It can be a nasty place, but the things weve done -- things weve done -- and everybody says it, including the Democrats when theyre are not on television or not talking to a mic. They cannot believe what weve done and they want to stop it as fast as possible, and were not going to let that happen. With your support, we will keep on cutting your taxes, reducing your regulations and raising up your incomes, which have already gone up a lot over the last two years.
We will protect Medicare and we will protect your social security, just like Ive been saying during the debates, right? I talked about your social security and everybody said, were going to change. Well, I was the one that said were not, and guess what? There havent been any changes. We will defend your right to free speech, religious liberty and we will continue to confirm judges who will interpret the constitution of the United States as written.
Two judges. How about Justice Neil Gorsuch? Justice Neil Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh, two great people, two great intellects, two great scholars. These are the people we need on our Supreme Court. We will fully secure the borders ...  Thank you. I love you, too, darling.
Accept this. That was a guy, wasnt it? Yes. I love -- I love you anyway. Thank you. Thank you. We will pass case Kates Law, stop sanctuary cities, stop catch and release and the ridiculous visa lottery and chain migration and we will keep the criminals, traffickers, drug dealers and terrorists the hell out of our country.
Were going to keep them out. We will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependents to independence and poverty to prosperity. For years you watched as your leaders apologized for America. They apologized. I saw it, you saw it. Now, you have a president who is standing up for America. Were standing up for your values, were standing up for Georgia and we are proudly standing up for our national anthem.
Im asking every citizen from every party, every background -- go ahead. All right.  It sounded too good. I had to let them go forward. I dont think we could have stopped them anyway, do you? Good job. Good job. Thank you, fellas. Im asking every citizen from every party, every background and every race, color, and creed to reject the Democrat politics and the policies of anger and division and to reclaim our proud and righteous destiny as Americans.
I need you to get your family, to get your friends, get your neighbors, get your coworkers and to go out and vote Republican. Were going to do it. Were going to do it. This Tuesday, I need the people of Georgia to send a message to crying Chuck Schumer... Nancy Pelosi... and the legendary Maxine Waters... and all of the radical Democrats by electing Brian Kemp as your next governor.
Loyal citizens like you helped build this country and together, we are taking back our country, returning power to you, the American people. We stand on the shoulders of brave Americans who crossed the oceans, tamed the wilderness, secured our independence, won two world wars and planted our great flag on the face of the moon.
American patriots defeated fascism, vanquished communism, delivered millions into freedom and built the greatest country and most powerful military in the history of our world. These courageous Americans did not shed their blood, sweat and tears so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy, tear down our industry and destroy our proud American heritage.
We didnt do it. From the farm fields of Georgia to the big sky of Montana... from the deserts of Nevada to the everglades of Florida, from the coal mines of West Virginia to the steel mills of Indiana and in every city and town across our land, we are going to work, we are going to fight and we are going to win, win, win.
We will not bend, we will not break, we will never give in, we will never give up, we will never back down, we will never surrender and we will always fight on to victory, victory, victory. Because we are Americans and our hearts bleed red, white and blue. We are one people, one family and one glorious nation under God.
