Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Washington Township, Michigan|April 28, 2018
Thank you very much. Hello, Michigan. Hello, Michigan. I love this state and I love the people of this state, and thank you for being here. Thank you. Thank you. You know you may have heard, I was invited to another event tonight, The White House Correspondents Dinner , but Id much rather be in Washington, Michigan than in Washington DC right now, that I could tell you.
Great people. Thank you for that incredible support and by the way you want to see a lot of people go outside. We could have filled this place up, probably five or six times, you see whats going on. Thank you. This is a beautiful building, but I said: couldnt you have gotten one larger? That would be nice right, but you know the expression youre inside, so you made it good, realistic. Good job tonight.
Were especially honored to be joined by your really great friend of mine and a great Attorney General, the next governor of Michigan Bill Schuette, wheres Bill? Well all right Bill, wherever the hell he is, right? Bill Schuette. We also welcome members of Congress, Paul Mitchell, Jack Burkman and John Mullen are... Where are they? Thank you fellas. These are great people, and I want to thank Chris McAnally and the Total Sports Park team for hosting us tonight.
Thank you. I wish you could have given us a larger arena, but what are you gonna do right? Thank you, fellas. Finally, we have to thank a very special person in all of our lives because he got Melania. This, thats true because our amazing chairwoman, the Republican National Committee Ronna McDaniel, shes done some job and if you remember, she ran the state of Michigan and who won the state of Michigan after decades.
I remember that night. You know, but a long time since the Republicans won Michigan and they said Donald Trump has won this state of Michigan remember and we won a lot of other states also. That was some night. So I want to thank Rana for the great job that she really has done.
Shes done it right from the literally right from the beginning. In fact, what we needed somebody over at the RNC, I said get that woman that ran Michigan. We need to elect more Republicans, so we can protect our cities, defend our borders, grow our economy and continue to make America great again and thats what were doing were doing were doing some job were all doing it together, but you see whats happening with regulations with Massive tax cuts with the judges were pointing were. Appointing judges like I guess never before has anything happened like what were doing on great conservative Republican judges were setting records and by the time we finish, I think we will have the all-time record.
You have no idea how important it and then, of course, we have Justice Gorsuch whos been fantastic, he has been fantastic. Everyone here tonight is united by the same timeless American values. We defend our Constitution, we support the rule of law and we support the heroes of law enforcement.
We are pride in our history and respect for our great American flag. We defend our flag and we honor our flag and if others honored our flag, thered be a lot better off. Wouldnt they wouldnt it. We put our hands on our hearts for the pledge of allegiance, and we do that proudly and we stand for the national anthem.
We believe that a strong nation must have strong borders. Are you watching that mess thats going on right now with the caravan coming up? Are you watching this and our laws are so weak, theyre, so pathetic, given to us by Democrats, theyre so pathetic, Nancy Pelosi, Chuck Schumer and let me tell you, weve gotten Mexico to work with us on stopping a lot of whats pouring in, but we have the Worst laws anywhere in the world, we dont have borders, were gonna build the wall, were getting it. Weve already started. I dont know if you see you know its funny, so San Diego theyre being just overrun great place, but theyre being overrun by people pouring so theyre begging us for a wall.
So we have the money, its all funded in San Diego and those people really want it, and I said, lets not do it there. Lets let them put pressure on Governor Jerry Brown, Moonbeam, Moonbeam, so we started the wall and its being built in San Diego beautiful job. They did a great job and they said you know we stopped that war. All the people in San Diego are gonna put a lot of pressure, and I said well, lets see about that.
So I said: how much would it cost to stop the wall, sir, it will cost seven million in extras. I cant pay the extra, as I hate extras right, so were building the wall, but San Diego San Diego, wants the wall. Thats going up and honestly seriously, they would have put a lot of pressure in California. If you look at whats going on with sanctuary cities.
Now, all over California, especially California, the home of sanctuary cities, the home of sanctuary cities. But do you see whats going on where areas big areas? They dont want sanctuary cities, they want to be safe, they dont want them. So weve started. We have $1.6 billion and this last budget just so you understand we had to fund our military folks, we got, we got seven, our military was depleted and it was in trouble and now were honoring brand new airplanes, world and brand new everything we got. Seven hundred billion dollars approved and next year we got seven hundred and sixteen billion dollars approved for our military.
We had to do it and General Mad Dog Mattis would not be happy. I said to him yesterday I said General: do you think we really needed this? Much we needed it, sir. We need it, we really did. We needed it. So, by doing that, the Democrats dont care about our military, they dont they dont care and they dont care about our borders and I dont think they care much about crime, because if you look at it MS-13 they pour through everybody pours through and they wanted.
They wanted and by the way we are getting rid of MS-13 in record numbers, okay record, the liberal politicians who support criminal aliens and they support them over far over American citizens. Nancy Pelosi and her gang theyve got to be voted out of office. Theyve got to be voted out of office and you have a senator in mission. Senator Debbie Stabenow . She voted against Kates Law. She voted against tax cuts, she votes against borders, she wants people to flow into the country and you people just keep putting her back again and again and again, its your fault, so you got to get to the pole and we have some great people running the Primer is going to be over with soon, but we have some great people and honestly, if you want the borders to be secure, if you want to keep those big tack, how have you done with the tax cuts by the way and not only the tax cuts? The jobs that have been created, the jobs, unemployment, let me tell you our country - is doing great.
You know the stock market, which is not really the all-time indicator, because the country is actually doing much better than the stock market, but the stock market is up almost 35 percent since the election, but the countrys doing actually even bother. You know what bothers the stockmarket. I would have been up 60%, but I have to do things. You know what I have to do. I cant let other countries take advantage of us. Okay, I cant so were doing trade deals and a lot of these folks in Washington.
Please dont do that. I said: wait a minute: we have a horrible deal on this one on that one I wont even mention. I love you too , so we have to renegotiate these deals. If you look at China last year with China and look hes been of great help, President Xi hes a friend of mine, but he likes China.
I, like the USA, but hes a friend of mine, but you know what hes been a great help on the border with North Korea and a lot of good things are happening war, a lot of good thing, Im not gonna give you whats going to actually Happen: cuz, we dont really know, but Ill tell you one thing: were not playing games, and I remember you know it was very rough three, four months ago. Thats very nice! Thank you. Thats where Nobel I just want to get the job done. So if we would have, if we would have said where we are today from three or four months ago, remember they were saying hes going to get us into nuclear war. They said no, no, no, no strength is going to keep us out of nuclear war, not gonna get us right, so were doing very well.
I spoke to the president this morning of South Korea for a long time. They just had a very good meeting. He gives us tremendous credit. He gives us all the credit I mean he as president moon of South Korea.
You know it started with the Olympics because, frankly, the Olympics was not going to have a lot of people and all of a sudden North Korea called in and said you know, wed love to participate in the Olympics. Everyone said, excuse me, thats it, but that was a good thing. It was a great thing and they went from having a real potential disaster. You know they worked on it for 15 years to make it great and they did a great job. South Korea did a great job, but they didnt have people whos gonna go all of a sudden.
They had a tremendous Olympics very, very successful and we are doing things that are good. I think well have a meeting over the next three or four weeks. Theyre going to be a very important meeting, the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula of North Korea and but well see how it goes and again, whatever happens happens, look Im going. It may not work out. I leave Im not going to be a John Kerry who makes that horrible Aranda horrible one of the worst deals.
I mean, how do you make a deal like that? A hundred and fifty billion dollars 1.8 billion dollars in cash? You know what that is, and you know what they got. They got nothing. They got nothing so were gonna have hopefully a very successful negotiation over the next three or four weeks and well be doing the world a big favor, well be doing the world. A big favor, lets see how it goes, I think well do fine, I think were gonna do just I had one of the fake news groups this morning, . Now they were saying what do you think President Trump had to do with it? Ill tell you what like, how about everything,  and even president moon, says that and hes been great and Ill. Tell you why its gonna be an interesting period of time.
We had a very interesting thing happen. Over the last few days, senator Jon Tester of a really great place, Montana, who voted by the way in favor of sanctuary cities, whos weakened the border didnt vote for tax cuts. He took a gentleman who is a truly high-quality human being and what they said about him. What they said about this great American doctor, Ronny Jackson, an admiral in the Navy.
He served three presidents. President Obama said he was fantastic. President Bush said he was fantastic. I say hes fed this is a high quality individual like they would love in Montana and tester started, throwing out things that hes heard well, I know things about tester that I could say to and if I said him, hed never be elected again and it was Said because I watched dr. Jackson, Admiral Admiral Jeff, both a doctor and an admiral high-quality, but I watched him and I suggested it because were taking care of our vets.
You know weve done a great job with our vets. We have accountability, approach, were getting choice approved and I pulled it because I didnt like the choice. The choice wasnt good enough what they were going to. I could had it already.
We could have had it in the last budget, but it wasnt good enough were getting choice, which is a big deal. Thats going to be game-changing and by the way I have five great people that want to run the VA. We have great people but Ill tell you what Jon Tester did this man is a disgrace. Admiral Jackson started setting and he was working so hard.
I suggested it to him. You know he war hero a leader. A great you know, hes a Admiral, a great great guy, 50 years old and he started studying, and then he started getting hit with vicious rumors vicious and the Secret Service told me just coming. In sir, we checked out all of those things, sir theyre, not true.
Theyre not true, so they try and destroy a man. Well, theyre doing it with us theyre trying their damnedest, but that but a little. I want to thank by the way the House Intelligence Committee. Okay, they do it with us to Russian collusion.
You know I guarantee you Im tougher on Russia. Nobody ever thought in fact. Do you have you heard about the lawyer for a year a woman lawyer? She was like, oh, I know nothing. No, no! Now, all of a sudden, she supposedly is involved with government.
You know why, if she did that, because Putin and the group said you know this Trump is killing us. Why dont you say that youre involved with government so that we can go and make their life in the United States even more chaotic? Look at whats happened? Look at how these politicians have fallen for this junk Russian collusion. Give me a break Ill. Tell you the only collusion.
Is the Democrats colluded with the Russians and the Democrats colluded with lots of other people, take a look at the intelligence agencies and what about hate and what about combing? You watch them on. The interviews are what about Gumbel? What about Comey? How about that so combing? How about this guy coming? He said the other night, the fake dirty dossier. He said the other night on Fox. He said very strongly.
No, I didnt know that it was paid for by the Democrats and Hillary Clinton how about that. They start something based on a document that was paid for by the DNC and Hillary Clinton. Honestly, folks, let me tell you, let me tell you its a disgrace. We got to get back down to business, its a disgrace whats going on in our country, and they did that they did that to admiral jackson.
They are doing it to a lot of people. Innuendo. You know in the old days when the newspapers used to write they put names down today they say sources have said that President Trump sources they never say who the sources they dont have sources. The sources dont exist.
In many cases they dont have sources and the sources in many cases dont exist. These are very dishonest people, many of them they are very, very dishonest people, fake dues buried this on . But you watch go me and you watch the way he lies and then hes got the memos. I wonder when he wrote the memos right, then hes got the memos and he puts them up watch the way he lies.
Its the most incredible thing. Do you remember? Jon Lovitz, do you remember the liar? Well, Combes, worse commies, a liar and a leaker, you know, but you know I did you a great favor when I fired this guy. I tell you, I did you a great favor, because when you look at what was going on at the top of the FBI, it is a disgrace that everybody in this room understands it. The lovers, the two lovers right: Lisa Lisa and struck Lisa and Peter the two lovers: what they said.
What was going on look at how many of those top officials were fired or removed, and they should be out of here, and what about the guy that took $ 700,000 for his wifes campaign? Nobody even talks about it. Nobody even talks about it. Ill tell you what Ive been talking about it for a long time and if our Justice Department was doing the right thing, theyd be a lot tougher right now on those people, because theres tremendous crime and corruption. On the other side we need to drain the swamp.
We need to vote against guys like John tester, that can destroy a man with innuendo and we have to be very careful with the press because they do the same. Damn thing we love our country. We believe our citizens deserve a government that is loyal to them. In return for too long, the loyalty of Michigan workers was repaid with pure and simple betrayal.
You were betrayed for decades. You were dealt one devastating blow after another disastrous trade deals which Im straightening out and Im not saying hey. There may be a little pain for a little while, but ultimately for my farmers, I love my farmers. Theyre great Patriots.
Dont forget, the farmers have been doing lousy for 15 years. Ok, lets face it. If you look at a graph, its been like this. So when I say Im negotiating NAFTA and if they dont make a fair deal, Im terminating Neffs that Ill make a great deal.
Youre gonna do much better or when we take on China or the European Union, which has tremendous blocks. Its very hard for us to sell stuff into the European Union. It was put there to take advantage of the United States okay. So when we do not anymore youre right, not anymore, we told them that yesterday actually said the same words not anymore.
Those days are over, but weve got to open up these markets. Its not fair, dont forget with China and President Xi when he was at mar-a-lago six months ago. I said to him: would you do me a favor? Would you take our cattle because you remember in 2000 they ended, they wouldnt take our cattle for whatever reason, but they didnt take cattle after a short discussion. He said I will sow the cattle is now going to China, but and plenty of other things, and he said last week at a speech.
He is going to start opening up China, but its not enough. Its not enough when we lose 500 billion dollars a year and thats in a trade deficit. When we lose hundreds of billions of dollars in intellectual property theft, not only China but others, we have to stop it. We cant allow this to happen so in a certain way, I call people Patriots because its short term, you may have to take some problems.
Long term youre gonna be so happy, youre gonna be so happy were gonna get it opened up or were not doing business with these other countries right with with the European Union last year. You know it sounds so nice, the European Union. You know why I mean they literally did like I said they formed to take advantage of the United States and I dont blame them. You know what I dont blame them.
I dont blame President Xi, I dont blame Prime Minister Abbey of Japan. I dont blame the heads of these countries for taking advantage of us. I blame past presidents and past leaders of our country. I was in China and I was making a speech and I was saying how bad it is, how unfairly were treated and Im in front of thousands of people from China, and I could see the mood was getting dark and I have President Xi over here and I realized I was going point after point, how bad it is for us how good it is for them.
They became a major power since the World Trade Organization, which is a horror show for us horrible, and I looked and I looked at President Xi and hes the boss hes the guy. I said, but its not your fault, its not your fault. Its the fault of the representatives of the United States, who allowed you to get away with it. I dont blame you right, I dont blame you and it went out and thats the way I feel about.
I told Abby the other day, Prime Minister great guy. They send us millions of cars, we send them wheat and they dont take it. The reason wanted. We send them cattle, you know what they do, that youre just 50% 50% when we send them cattle, 35% or in farm products, but they dont take.
Many because their farmers dont want it so theyre not taking your product, but when they send their cars over, we charge them almost nothing. Let me give you a great example: its so simple China, so when they send a car into the United States of which they send many, including parts and you people know something about the car industry, because Im bringing it back to the state of Michigan right. So so Im bringing it back and you know with Chryslers, moving back to Michigan from Mexico, we saw that some of you are beneficiaries of that one, thousands of jobs. We have many many car companies, you see. Whats going on Toyota, many companies are opening up in Michigan, the cars are coming back to Michigan, two plants are coming back, theyre being expanded, and by the way do you remember about six years ago I wasnt even running and they gave me an award.
The Republican of the year - I guess they probably maybe they knew what was gonna happen. I dont know I wasnt running long time ago and I made a speech in Michigan thanking them for the award saying how horrible? How did you let this happen where all of these plants closed move to Mexico? They build the cars in Mexico, they sell them across the border, no tax, we lose the jobs, we lose the taxes, we lose everything. How did anybody let this happening? Guess what not happening anymore? Folks - its not happening so now, theyre moving back now, theyre moving back. But let me give you an example.
So China, great people by the way, great people, great country, great leader, but when they sell a car into the United States, they pay two-and-a-half percent tax. When we sell a car into China number one, they dont want it because they have barriers, so they wont take it. But if they took it its a 25 percent tax, okay, so think of it so think of it. So they have a tax. Thats ten times higher.
Now what they say is we dont want your cars, we have a barrier, but if we take them its twenty five percent, so were two-and-a-half twenty five. So far it doesnt sound good, but whats really bad is they say we wont take your cars. We want you to build your factories in China and make the cars there. Okay, all right, but you know what.
Why are they wrong because now were doing that? Also? Okay, build your factories here. If you want to sell cars in the United States, let them build them in Michigan, right, Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania. You see whats happening, you see, whats happened, were really coming back and by the way ahead of schedule. You know Ive. Only been here for 15 months, we have a lot of things happening.
There has been - and I dont say this - hopefully in a braggadocious - I say this a fact: there has been even some of these people back. There agree with this one, although they try like hell, wait they try, but nobody in the first year of office has done what weve done is not me. Its we we, the first year regulations tax, cuts, judges, you look at what weve done nobodys done, what weve done, and in fact you know, Justin coming over your great congressmen are in the back of the car. Do you know what the Soo Locks are sue locks? Well, the Soo Locks are going to hell.
You know that right and were going to get them fixed up, were gonna get them and for the farmers. Okay, its gonna get good and were gonna. Let your guest workers come in because were gonna have strong borders, but we have to have your workers come in. You know the unemployment picture is so good.
Its so strong that we have to let people come in theyre gonna be guesswork, is theyre gonna come in theyre gonna work on your farms. Were gonna have the h2 bees come in. Were gonna have a lot of things happening, but then they have to go out. Then they have to go out, but well get a lot of men because you need them.
You need them in Wisconsin. I was very instrumental in getting Foxconn to come here. Friend of mine, great guy fantastic, they make a lot of the Apple iPhones and a lot of they make almost all of it. I mean they are an incredible, really: an incredible company, theyre, building a fantastic plant and its under construction now and theyre going out and theyre recruiting and theyre getting people and theyre doing it professionally.
But we need people to be able to come into our country. Do your jobs help you on the farms and then they go out. They get a leaf guest workers. Were gonna take care of that guess, workers! Dont we agree, we have to have them.
We have to have it after years of rebuilding other countries, were finally going to rebuild our country. Okay, its about time, , think of it think of it. Ive been saying it, but the number goes up and up and up remember this: we have spent seven trillion with the teeth trillion dollars in the Middle East. You know we have for it nothing, nothing! Nothing.
Now weve really wiped out Isis theres no military like we have, and now Ive asked some of the richest countries in the world. Sorry folks, you got to pay for this. You know were tired. We dont want to pay and well work with them and well stop the trip to the Mediterranean for the enemies.
Well do lots of things, but we got to come home were gonna. Let people there were gonna. Have those people pay they got to pay. They get so much money, they dont know what to do with it: theyre rolling in money and nobody, Ive been asking them by the way Ive been asking.
Give you a little story. I gave it the other day, but nobody reports it. So you know, I said were going to move the embassy to Jerusalem right so a month ago they come into my office with an order, sir. I have an order.
Whats the order, sir, were going to build the embassy, raise it were in Jerusalem, sir? Okay, good? How much sir 1 billion dollars? I said, whoa whoa and I you know I had the thing half sign. You got to see this. Its signed Donald and then it stopped, and then I put a big X over the Donald 1 billion dollar. Sir, I said: wait.
A minute were gonna spend a billion dollars, building a essentially a one-story building. Were gonna spend a billion. So I called my guy the ambassador to Israel, his name David Friedman. You know him. He was one of the biggest smartest lawyers a deal lawyer.
One of the biggest in New York represented me over the years, hes just an incredible lawyer and he loves Israel. He loves our country, but he does. He loves. History is very proud of Israel very important to him, and I said you know David.
Lets see if you can make peace, but part of it is lets see about this, so I call my say David, Im not spending a billion dollars on an embassy. No, so you dont have to. I said: what do you mean? I think I can do it for a hundred and fifty thousand dollars so what I said a hundred and fifty thousand dollars, he said yeah, we have a great site, they were gonna buy a site, we have a great site, the best site. Its got a building on it and I can take a corner of that building and I can spend a hundred and fifty thousand dollars, sir, and I can build a beautiful embassy and we can have it open, sir, in three months, big difference and were gonna. Let your guest workers commend these.
Can we get it open immediately and its opening it? Have it open, sir? In three months, big difference, big difference, so we went from a billion dollars to one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and I took the liberty of saying David. If you spend a little more than 150 thousand, thats okay, so we save a bit now its temporary and its set, but its fine, its nice and we get it open at a billion. Most of us accept all of these really beautiful young ones. Up here we wont even be around to see here we get it open immediately and its opening in, like a month, youve been reading about it, so the embassy, but but its not that look its opening in a month now in, as you know, in the UK, In London we had the best site in all of London, the best site.
While some genius said, We are going to sell the site and then we are going to take the money and build a new embassy. That sounds good, right? But you have to have money left over if you do that.
So, they sold the site for like, I think -- and Ill check the numbers because theyll say, oh, you misrepresented, but these numbers are close enough. They sold the site for like $250 million. They think they are geniuses. They go out and buy a horrible location and they build a new embassy. Thats the good news. The bad news, the embassy cost over a billion dollars.
So, now what do we have? We have an embassy in a lousy location and I was supposed to cut the ribbon. I didnt do the deal. It was started by Bush and Obama. It was a Bush-Obama special, okay, but it could have been stopped by Obama. It would have been stopped by me. So, they have -- listen, they have -- so I said, What kind of a deal is that? You sold this great site. Its the best site in London. Literally, the best site.
They were so happy, they got $250 million, oh, whatever, but they spent all of that money plus a lot more to build a new embassy in a lousy location. So, I dont know, folks, we need a whole new thinking here. We need a whole new thinking. We need a whole new thinking. We are going to finally put America first, okay?
Since the election, weve created more than three million jobs including 300,000 new jobs in manufacturing. We love manufacturing. By the way, they wanted me to cut the ribbon on the new embassy, and I was all set, and then in the end, I said, Im not going. I dont want to cut. I said Im not cutting that ribbon. I said Im not going.
All right, hey, hopefully well have many years of success with that embassy, okay. In our country, jobs are booming and confidence is soaring. We are at the top of the charts, and they are talking about us all over the world. They are talking about this incredible success.
And believe me, if I didnt get elected, if the opposition party, which I call the obstructionist party, theyre obstructionists, its all they are good at. If they got elected, they wouldnt have cut regulations. They wouldnt have cut taxes. You would have been down to a GDP that would have been negative. You would have had a negative GDP, and wait until you see over the coming quarters how good it is going to be.
And you see whats happening. Our companies are ready to soar. Theyre ready to soar. Wages for the first time are rising at the fastest pace in many, many years -- 18, 19, 20 years. And I tell you, I always would go around and Id say to you strongly, people have jobs. They made more money 21 years ago than they make today and in some cases, they have two and three jobs. Terrible.
African-American unemployment has reached the lowest level in history -- in history. Hispanic unemployment -- any Hispanics in the room? Hispanics? No, not so many, thats okay.
And by the way, in all fairness, Kanye West gets it. He got it. He gets it, and he saw that. When he sees that African-American unemployment is the lowest in history, you know, people are watching. Thats a very important thing he has done for his legacy, its a very important thing.
But Hispanic unemployment, lowest level in history -- women female unemployment, lowest level in 18 years. And wages are going up for the first time in many, many years. Thats great. As a result of our massive tax cuts, which by the way, Debbie Stabenow voted against and if they get in, if the Democrats get in, they are going to take the tax cuts away and theyre going to raise your taxes to a much higher level than you ever thought possible. Thats what they want to do, so they can give the money away.
Millions of Americans are receiving large bonuses and bigger paychecks than theyve ever received because they have so much money that they didnt even know they were making. You see whats happened as of February 1st, and right after the cuts, the corporations gave massive bonuses and they continue. Here in Michigan, Chrysler handed out $2,000.00 bonuses to 60,000 workers and announced plans for a $1 billion investment in Warren creating a minimum of 2,500 jobs.
They are now leaving other countries and they are coming back to Michigan. Remember, I told you that five or six years ago? They are now coming back, and they are going to come back a lot faster than you have seen. And you know whats even more important than that? Leaving? Because we dont give them the incentive to leave anymore. They used to give them incentives to leave. We are not giving them incentive. No, were giving them incentive to stay and to pay our people.
But to protect our families, we must secure our borders. The good thing about the caravan, people are watching. People are watching. You watch how horrible -- they are coming in from Honduras. They are coming in from other places. Theyre taking this long trek up Mexico. We want Mexico to help us and we have to demand it, but Mexico is going to help us, but there are still hundreds of people that are maybe 2,000, theres still hundreds of people, and our laws are so corrupt and stupid, I call them the dumbest immigration laws anywhere on earth.
If a person puts their foot over the line, we have to take them into our country. We have to register them. We then have to ask them a couple of questions. Lawyers are telling them what to say -- how unsafe they are, and once they say that, we have to let them go to come back to court in like a year. Only one problem, they dont come back, okay, thats the end.
Welcome to the United States. This is the law, and we have at the border the greatest people, the Border Patrol, the ICE agents. These are great people. These are great people. And the laws are so corrupt -- they are so corrupt. And you know, one of the reasons they do it is because the Democrats actually feel and they are probably right, that all of these people that are pouring across are going to vote for Democrats, theyre not going to vote for Republicans, theyre going to vote no matter what we do, theyre going to vote...
So, there is a theory that they do it for that. They do it for a lot of reasons. A lot of times, they dont even know what they are doing. They dont even know why they are doing it, but we have to have borders and we have to have them fast, and we need security, we need the wall. We are going to have it all.
And again, that wall has started. We are $1.6 billion. We come up again on September 28th, and if we dont get border security, we have no choice, well close down the country because we need border security.
So, we dont have a wall, but a big portion is being built, a lot of it is being fixed. We have a wall that wasnt a wall. We have a wall with big holes in it, thats old and a lot of it is being fixed right now and were putting up brand new gorgeous stuff, were building new -- as I told you in San Diego and other places, but we want to now do the big job, so we are going to see what happens, but we have to have border security.
The one good thing. Watch the caravan. Watch how sad and terrible it is, including for those people because they come up, and the crime that they inflict on themselves and that others inflict on them, its a horrible, dangerous journey for them -- for them. And they come up because they know once they get here, they can walk right into our country. We have the greatest people on earth and they cant do anything because the laws are corrupt. The laws are corrupt.
So we have fought to secure our border, but Democrats in Congress -- Nancy Pelosi, Schumer -- theyve opposed us at every stop and every step. Theyve opposed every effort to close the loopholes to keep the violent criminals like MS-13 the hell out of our country and to stop the flow of illegal immigrants and drugs which are pouring into our country.
And we have done a great job and the numbers are great, but you know, part of the problem is, people are smart and they see how ridiculous these laws are. They know if they can get anywhere near, once they touch our ground its called Welcome to the United States. How crazy is it? How crazy are we to allow these?
So, I will tell you, the Republicans are working hard and Debbie Stabenow is one of the leaders for weak borders and letting people in, so I dont know how she gets elected. A vote for a Democrat in November is a vote for open borders and crime. Its very simple. Its also a vote for much higher taxes. Its also a vote for be careful of your Second Amendment, okay, be careful.
Be careful of your Second Amendment if they get in. The open border policies of the Democratic Party are not just wrong, they are dangerous and they are in fact deadly. They are deadly. They make no sense. They are deadly. Their policies let gangs -- some of the most of vicious gangs in the world pour into our country. They pour into our country.
Do you know on Long Island, you have gang members that are so tough that we send in these incredible ICE agents, but you know what? The ICE agents are much tougher and they are grabbing them, and Ill tell you why. A doctor please, doctor? A doctor, please, yes take your time, take your time, darling.
Those are the people we love. Those are great people, I tell you. And the doctors. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. Great job. Amazing. What people we have? What people we have? So we have to keep going the way we are going. You know what? We did what was they called a miracle. I dont think it was a miracle.
Do you remember on Election Day, because it was really the day before, but it was 12:00 in the evening. When I started speaking, Grand Rapid, he says, Grand Rapid, I said -- and it was an unexpected stop, but I heard the opponent was going out with the President and they were going out also unexpected, and they had a very small crowd, but when I heard that, we left where we were, we said, Lets go to Michigan, right? Grand Rapids.
I got there at 12:00 in the evening, remember that? And I said, Hows the crowd? We couldnt even get near the arena. There were 32,000 people. I finished speaking at 1:00 in the morning on Election Day, remember that? You were there.
Thirty-two thousand people, now Michigan hadnt been won in many, many years. And I said, Wait a minute. We had 32,000 people. I got home at 3:00 in the morning. And I said Tell me? Why are we going to lose Michigan? Why? We had 32,000 people, 1:00 in the morning and even beyond, nobody left. Everybody was -- we had a great time, right?
And I said, So, why are we going to lose Michigan? They said because the Republicans lose Michigan. I said, Wait a minute. Wait a minute, Im bringing the cars back. Im bringing the plants back. Im bringing the jobs back. We are going to win Michigan. And we won Michigan, and I think quite easily. All right. Remember that?
I always said, I made that speech. That was my last speech. I made that speech on Election Day because by the time we finished, it was 1:00. It was Election Day.
This November, every American will face a choice. Now, they say if the House doesnt make it -- its very important -- you have great Congressmen. These are great people. These are great, great people, and thank you.
But we have to keep the House because if you listen to Maxine Waters -- she goes around saying, We will impeach him. We will impeach him. Then people said, But he hasnt done anything wrong. Oh, that doesnt matter, we will impeach the President.
So, I dont think we are going to have a lot of happy people if that happens. I think it is going to be a little bit tough, but she goes around and some others. We will impeach him. It doesnt matter if you do anything right or wrong. They want to do that.
We have got to win the House. And you know what? We are going to win anyway. But we are going to win the House. We are going to win the House.
Now, historically when you win the Presidency, the person that wins, the party that wins does poorly in what they call the midterms, and the reason is, I guess you take it easy a little bit, right? Something happens. I guess, its 93 percent to 94 percent of the time. This is over a long period of time. I dont know why -- you know what it is? You get complacent.
We cannot be complacent. We have got to go out, right? We have got to go out -- weve got to go out and weve got to fight like hell and we have got to win the House and weve got to win the Senate, and I think we are going to do great in the Senate and I think were going to do great in the House because the economy is so good. The economy is so good.
And because if you look at us all, around the world, we are respected again. We are not pushovers anymore. We are not pushovers. You saw the President of France he came in, great guy. Chancellor Merkel came in yesterday from Germany. No, it will all be fine.
Look, again, dont blame them. Blame the people that used to stay here with much smaller crowds. But thats okay. Blame your American President and your American representatives. But its not happening anymore. We are respected again as a nation. We are respected. We are not the patsies anymore. We are not the pushovers anymore.
By the way, speaking of not being a patsy or a pushover, do you ever watch Corey Lewandowski on the shows? Where is Corey? Corey? And David Bossie?
He also had very little experience. He only ran one campaign and he won, so hes one for one. Corey, say a few words.
This is Trump country. We love you, Michigan. Thank you for supporting Donald J. Trump as your next President of the United States. Thank you very much.
Thank you, fellas. I saw them back there. They work hard and these are great people and we appreciate it. We really do. Okay, ready? So, we need more Republicans. Weve got to get more Republicans because you know, they say we have a majority.
Well, one in the Senate, very few in the House. We need more to get it done. We are going to get it done one way or the other, but we need more - - with your help, were going to elect more Republicans and were going to deliver even more.
Now, again, other than healthcare, which frankly we got rid of the individual mandate which is the worst part of Obamacare, we are doing association healthcare very soon, its coming out over the next couple weeks, which is going to be incredible where you are going to buy great healthcare, highly competitive.
Remember, I used to talk during the debates, get rid of the state lines. Were getting rid of the state lines. Youll be able to go out in groups and buy great healthcare at a very low and competitive price.
And essentially, we are getting rid of Obamacare; some people would say, essentially we got rid of it, but you no longer have the individual mandate. You remember what that is. Thats where you had the privilege -- a real -- a privilege of going out and spending a lot of money so that you had the second privilege of not having to buy healthcare.
So you paid for the privilege of not buying healthcare. We got rid of it in the tax cut plan. Big thing. Big thing. That was so unconstitutional, but that was the worst part of Obamacare. We got rid of that and you see whats going on, and were really producing -- and except for one vote. Remember the one vote? Three oclock in the morning thumbs down. What a vote that was. What a vote that was. That was some vote.
But despite that, its going to come out great. So we have gotten rid of a lot of Obamacare. Were going to rid of the rest. We got you the tax cuts. We want every American to know the dignity of work, the pride of a paycheck and the satisfaction of a job well done, there is nothing like it. Together we can lift millions of Americans from welfare to work, from dependence to independence and from poverty to prosperity.
We are supporting job training and we are supporting vocational schools, right? Vocational schools. You know, I said to the guys, I said these community colleges, they are wonderful, but nobody knows really what a community college is.
When I was growing up, we had things called vocational schools. And Id go to a school and Id be sitting next to a guy, I never looked at his papers because he didnt do well. On the other side, I would have somebody not too good, but you know what? They could take an engine apart blindfolded and fix it.
They could build a brick wall better than all of the guys in the class and gals together. They could do things that nobody else could do and nobody knows what a community college is.
We are going to start using -- and we had these -- vocational schools where you learn trades, and you will do it and you will love it and you will make much more money than anything else you can do, right?
Those are the people we need in our country right now. We need skilled people and when people come across the border, we want to take them in, but we want to take them in based on merit, not based on a lottery. Lottery, lottery.
We want them to come in based on skill and based on merit so they can love our country, they can help our country, they can do things for our country, not come in based on some random lottery system. Aand that will happen. Its all happening.
Were going to build new bridges and airports and highways and waterways all across this magnificent land and you know what we are doing with your locks, we are going to start that as soon as I get back.
I told your congressman, write that name down for me, the Army Corps of Engineers, were going to be calling them. It could be tonight depending on the time I get back. But it might be tomorrow even though its a Sunday. Can I call on a Sunday? Is that okay? No? Your lock is not working too well, right? Not working too well.
Well, it hasnt been fixed in 50 years in all fairness. It would be nice to fix it. After spending all of that money in the Middle East, can you imagine? We cant fix a lock? But well get it fixed. Were going to put new steel into the spine of our country and breathe new life and new hope into our beautiful communities.
And in everything we do, in every decision we make, we will stand up and -- we are going to be proud. You know what? Were going to be proud of America again. We are going to stand up for America and we are not going to apologize anymore for America.
You know, I told you before, we have done a lot. We have done more than anybody in a year. Were for 16 months, and honestly it just feels like we have been here a long time together because the fight has been a long fight. But did you ever think we would have accomplished what we have accomplished in this short period of time?
You know, part of the problem the country had and one of the reasons our jobs are doing so well, our companies are doing so well, wages are going up because we had regulations which were staggering. It would take 20 years to get a highway or roadway approved, environmentally. It would take years and years to get the simplest permits.
I got rid of those rules and regulations. And by the way, were going to have crystal clean water. We are going to have beautiful clean air. Were going to be great. We are going to reject people if they dont have the right project, but projects arent going to take 18 years to get approved, and then in many cases, its thumbs down after working 18 years. No, were going to get it done.
We are going to stand up for places like Detroit that need help. Were going to stand up and were going to stand up for great states like Michigan, and we have done that. This is the state where Henry Ford invented the assembly line. This is it. Its the state that gave us Motown, the Mustang and the might of the American Midwest. Its a great state.
It is where generations of proud workers at General Motors and Chrysler and Kellogg transformed our nation and changed the entire world. We were the leader, and now we are the leader again, and everybody is seeing it. And dont forget this, we have increased the values over the last 16 months tremendously.
We are almost twice the size of the next largest economy. Remember that. Dont forget that. Dont forget that. And we are going to be growing very fast. Its time to look past the old divisions, tired thinking. The stale debates of the and finally come together as one nation under God. One nation under God. We are one people with one home, and one great American destiny.
Remember what I said, they are looking at us all over the world. When chancellor Merkel came in to see me, she said, Congratulations, Mr. President. What you have done is incredible with your economy. When President of France came in to see me, President Macron, wondering guy -- Emmanuel, we like shaking each others hand. Now, hes a great guy and shes terrific. But you know what? She is for Germany. He is for France. Im for the USA, okay? Does that make sense?
But Emmanuel came in and when Angela came in, they said, Amazing, congratulations. What we have done in a short period of time is incredible. So regulations -- we have cut more regulations in this 15 to 16 months than any other President has cut in four years, eight years or as you know, FDR, in one case 16 years, and its not even close.
We inherit the legacy of the great Americans who constructed the railroads, came to the frontiers, built the highways, carved out the Panama Canal and put a man on the face of the moon.
By the way, excuse me, did you see how our space program is going? A little different. And we are letting those rich guys that like rockets, go ahead, use our property, pay us some rent. Go ahead. You can use Cape Canaveral. You just pay us rent and spend that money. Pretty amazing, right?
Were the engine -- you know, it wasnt going up. That was great. But how about where the engines come down. They come down. They come down. They land so they can use them again. That looks like a futuristic beautiful stuff.
We have reinvigorated our Space Program to a level that nobody thought possible in this short period of time. NASA is back. NASA is back and Mars is waiting for us. You know that. Great.
You know what it is? Its great. Its science. Its important. Very important militarily, folks. Very important. We have the best military. We now again, we have the best military in the world. We are going to have a military, the likes of which, nobody has ever had. The best that we have ever had by far, and these are the times when you want to have a very powerful military. You dont want to have to use it, but you have to have it.
We stand on the shoulders of patriots who poured out their sweat and blood and tears for our country, for our flag and for our God. As long as we are proud of who we are, and what we are fighting for, there is nothing beyond our reach. There is nothing. Look what happened to us? Right? Here we are. Look what happened to us.
You know, a poll came out the other day, Rasmussen. I was at 51 percent, and then they said -- you dont read about that. You never hear them talking. You watch this fake CNN. Well, the polls -- do you ever notice? Theyre always talking. Do you ever notice CNN, Well, you know, hes not very popular. They were saying that before the last election victory, and now, we are much higher than that, but they said 51 percent -- and then somebody, some genius analyst said, But hes got at least 10 percent of the people that dont want to say they are voting for him.
And you know what I say to that? Well take them anyway, whatever it takes.
I dont know if its an insult or not, but you know what? We love those people because those people came out in the last election and they said, Dont talk to us. We would like to know how you voted. Dont talk to me. They go in Trump, they come out.
Remember the exit polls? The exit polls. They come out, Who did you vote for? None of your business. A hundred percent, those people are for Trump. We love those people. We love them. We love those people.
You know, there was a mayor of a certain city -- by the way, by the way, by the way, is this better than that phony Washington White House Correspondents Dinner? Is this more fun?
I could be up there tonight smiling like I love where they are hitting you shot after shot. These people hate your guts, shot -- and then Im supposed to -- and you know, you have got to smile. If you dont smile, they will say, He was terrible. He couldnt take it. And if you do smile, they will say, What was he smiling about? You know, theres no win...
We are proud to be America and the future belongs to us. The future belongs -- remember that. The future belongs to us. The future belongs to all of you. This is our moment. Weve never had a moment like this. The economy is raging. Our military is strong and getting stronger. Every single day, we are ordering the greatest equipments in the world. We make the greatest military equipment in the world. Look at what happened in Syria. Boom, boom, bing.
You know, after the attack -- we had to do that. People cannot use gas. Frankly, they shouldnt use anything, but they cant drop the gas, and it was gas. But you know, when we did it, do you remember? It came out, Oh, they hit 23 of our missiles. Then they said, We shot 43 and they hit 43 of our missiles. We shot 110. You know how many they hit? None. Zero. None.
You know how many of our missiles hit their target? One hundred percent. One hundred percent. And the British and the French were great. Great team. Its a great team. But this is our chance. Weve never had a chance like this. We are taking our country back. You have just no idea. So many people come up to me, Thank you, sir, thank you. I say, For what? For what? You are taking our country back.
Its true. So many people, they say, Thank you, sir. I always say, For what? They say, Sir, you are taking our country back, and its true. Its true. We are all taking our country back.
You know in the great state of Tennessee, a congressman, a wonderful guy, came up to me, they had early voting. This was before the election, they have early voting and he came up to me and the voting had just started, and I was in Pennsylvania making a speech. Hes a friend of a Pennsylvania congressman and they were together in Pennsylvania and he comes up to me and he goes, I wasnt President then, we were campaigning and the election had just started.
So, with the early voting he says to me, You know, Mr. Trump, he called me, he goes, I dont know whats happening in the rest of the country, but Tennessee early voting -- I have been doing this stuff for 25 years and I have never seen anything like it. People are great Americans but they never voted before because they never had anybody they wanted to vote for. They work hard. They pay taxes. They are coming out of the hills and out of the valleys. They have got the red caps on, they have got to make America great on. Theyve got the Trump on and I dont know whats happening, but if every place is like Tennessee, youre going to win this election, Mr. Trump.
True. So true. He said, I have never seen anything like it. And you know what? We are higher now than we were on Election Day. We are higher now because now, people are seeing the results. Its actually easier because people are actually seeing the results.
Before I said, Im going to do this, Im going to do that. We are going to get a tax cut. Were going to get rid of the individual mandate. We are going to do all of these things. Judges, regulations -- now I have done it.
Somebody from the news -- I wont call it, in this case, fake news because he turns out to be right -- he said, Trump is one of the first people ever that actually accomplished more than he promised. And its true. I accomplished -- I am a politician, I guess, but I accomplished more than I promised, and Im doing it for you.
