Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Panama City, FL|October 11, 2016
Thank you very much.
Hey, fellas, can we move over a little bit? Fellas? Fellas? Fellas? Hey, can we move over a little bit, please, could we? We need room. Come on. Thank you. Could you move over, please? We want the people to be able to see. We all love each other.
We want room, right?
Well, its great to be in Florida. My second home, I live here, I stay here, I love this place. And I want to tell you, so I guess we have, like, 11,200 here and outside we have over 10,000 people. Would anybody like to switch places?
No!
You are great! There is no place like being at a Trump rally. No place. No place.
Thank you very much. In 28 days were going to win Florida and we are going to win back the White House. Were going to win them back.
Id like to begin tonight by extending our thoughts and prayers to those recovering from the tragic aftermath of Hurricane Matthew. And I watched and fortunately it took a little bit of a turn to the right, to the east, and we got a little lucky, but it was still very bad. So to everybody, our thoughts and prayers are with you. Thank you.
Due to the hurricane, voter registration its been extended. Did you hear about this? Through tomorrow, so register, youve got to go and register or weve really -- you know, were doing something thats incredible, its a movement. But if we dont win, all it is is a little asterisk in history. Theres never been anything like this. So go and register, make sure you get out and vote November 28th .
If youve already registered, request an absentee ballot today and vote really early. Weve got to win. The Hillary Clinton documents released today by WikiLeaks make more clear than ever just how much is at stake in this election, so much corruption. This election will determine whether we remain a free country in the truest sense of the word or we become a corrupt banana republic controlled by large donors and foreign governments. The election of Hillary Clinton would lead to the destruction of our country, believe me. It will lead to the destruction of our country. Today we learned amazingly that the Department of Justice fed information to the Clinton campaign about the e-mail investigation so that the campaign could be prepared to cover up her crimes. What is going on?
Rudy Giuliani said it. This is collusion and corruption of the highest order and is one more reason why I ask my attorney general, I will ask, to appoint a special prosecutor.
We have to investigate Hillary Clinton and we have to investigate the investigation. This was a disgrace. This was a disgrace. Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 e-mails after congressional subpoenas. Can you imagine that? They got a subpoena from the United States Congress and then they deleted everything. If you did that in private life, you go to jail. And then destroyed her phones, some with a hammer, boom. Anybody destroy your phones before with a hammer, anybody? No? Anybody? No? And people have gone to jail for doing far less.
She also lost, think of this, she was secretary of state, lost as much as $6 billion in taxpayer money while she was running secretary of state. Now, some people say it was misplaced. Oh, billions of dollars misplaced. These WikiLeaks e-mails confirm what those of us here today have known all along. Hillary Clinton is the vessel, a corrupt global establishment thats raiding our country and surrendering the sovereignty of our nation.
This criminal government cartel doesnt recognize borders, but believes in global governance, unlimited immigration and rule by corporations. It also believes in no borders, just come on, folks, come on in. Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, again just revealed, Hillary Clinton said my dream is a hemispheric common market with open trade and open borders. Well, there go the rest of your businesses and there goes your country, folks.
She doesnt say that. Behind closed doors when she thought no one was listening, she pledged to dissolve the borders of the United States of America, no borders. You dont have borders, we dont have a country.
WikiLeaks has given us a window into the secret corridors of government power where we see a former secretary of state announcing her desire to end forever the American independence that our Founders gave to us and wanted us to have. American soldiers has fought and died to win and keep Americas freedom, and now Hillary Clinton wants to surrender that freedom to these open borders, open trade and a world government.
And by the way, we want a government for the United States. Were very happy with it. Were very happy with it.
Crooked Hillary is so radical on immigration that as secretary of state she refused to make foreign countries take back their criminal aliens. We have them all over the place. She didnt want to bring them back. Bring them back -- the countries were smart, they say we dont want them. We say, OK, well take them. And then you look at the crime and you wonder why.
And by the way, do you know, it was just announced, that murder is the highest its been in our country in 45 years. Youve heard that, right? One such killer who was set free on Hillarys watch went to a jail, came out and went on to kill a beautiful young American girl named Casey Chadwick. People have heard that name, beautiful, wonderful person. The killer, who had already been convicted for shooting a girl in the head, should have been sent home. Instead, he was set free and stabbed Casey in the face and neck 15 times violently and stuffed her body in a closet.
The corrupt establishment in Washington wants to surrender Americas borders, even as they send our troops overseas to protect the borders of foreign countries. We are protecting the borders of foreign countries, but not our borders.
A Trump administration will secure control, defend and protect the borders of the United States. We are going to protect.
And the Border Patrol agents just gave us, as you know, their endorsement, never did it before. ICE just gave us their endorsement. Sheriff Joe from Arizona just gave us his endorsement.
Even Chelsea Clinton, the WikiLeaks e-mails show, expressed serious concerns about conflicts of interest at the Clinton Foundation and the State Department. During a recent trip to Florida, I had a chance to spend some time with the incredible residents of Little Haiti. The Haitian community has contributed so much to this country and to this state. I also learned from them firsthand how much they despise the Clintons for what they did to the people of Haiti.
New e-mails revealed today by ABC News show that during the deadly earthquake in Haiti, which killed over 150,000 people at least, the Clintons couldnt stop cashing in. As people were dying in Haiti, Clinton insiders were separating out requests from friends of Bill or William Jefferson Clinton VIPs so that their business interests or contracts would receive very special treatment. People who were labeled not friends of Bill were placed very much on the sidelines.
In their biggest project, the Clintons used $400 million in aid and U.S. taxpayer funds to build what amounted to a massive sweatshop. And guess who set it up? Cheryl Mills, Hillarys chief of staff who helped destroy her e-mails, and then got immunity from the FBI that included the destruction of her computer.
Never been anything -- folks, theres never been anything like this. Theres never been whats gone on here with the e-mail destruction, with the deletion of thousands and thousands.
And last week it was revealed that two boxes of e-mails and information were missing. They were missing, theyre gone. The company that benefited from Millss actions then invent a company that put a lot of money in a company owned by Cheryl Mills. They invested.
Today, Haitis death toll from Hurricane Matthew is on the rise. We should never forget how Bill and Hillary Clinton handled Haiti the last time out.
To all of our friends in Haiti and to all of our friends in Little Haiti who are so amazing, your day of justice is coming. And it arrives on November 8th. Weve got to do this. Gotta do it. Weve got to do it.
Not only have the Clintons ripped off Haiti, but the new e-mails show members of the Clinton team attacking Catholics. While this is offensive, its just the latest evidence of the hatred that the Clinton campaign has really for everyday Americans. And you see it and you see so much from these WikiLeaks. You see so much, theres so much.
Weve all read the reports and heard the stories about how disrespectfully she treats law enforcement, youve seen it, how disrespectful she is to the Secret Service and many others in uniform even there to protect her.
And by the way, these are weapon-carrying people. They carry weapons. Hillary Clinton wants to really dismantle our Second Amendment, you know? So maybe she should start with her security people not carrying weapons. Does that make sense to you? Maybe. Maybe she should.
She even smeared all of Americas police officers as essentially racist. You heard that recently, essentially racist.
And by the way, I want to give a shout out and salute to our great people of law enforcement, our police have done an amazing job.
Im proud of the fact that Ive always treated the working people of this country with dignity and respect, especially our military and law enforcement personnel. These are amazing people.
The WikiLeaks e-mails show that Hillarys staff even has given up secret notes on when she needs to smile. Its all a phony deal with her.
By the way, did everybody see the debate, right?
Gotten good reviews, good reviews. Weve gotten good reviews. Well see what happens. But Pat Buchanan said the greatest of any presidential debate, the greatest performance. Thank you very much, folks. Thank you.
And we had eight online polls and every one of those, thats Time magazine and Drudge and so many others, and every one of them said we won by a massive margin. So lets hope it all boils down to winning on November 8th. Otherwise, honestly, Ive wasted my time, youve wasted your time.
I will have spent over $100 million on running for office. Thats a lot of money, a lot of money. Thats not the thing. If I dont win, it will be the single-greatest waste of time, energy and money. And, you know, somebody told me recently, a pundit said it doesnt matter whether you win or lose. What weve done, all of us, what weve done, but what Ive done, has never been duplicated, theres never been anything like this in American history.
You look at our crowds. I mean, Bernie Sanders was second, his crowds are tiny. Did you see Hillary Clinton today? She had this little crowd and they say, oh, it was the biggest crowd. She had nothing! She had nothing!
And theyre talking on television because the medias rigged. Let me tell you...
... the best thing shes got going, in my opinion the only thing shes got going, is the rigged media. Shes got nothing going.
Can you imagine working with her for four more years? The last thing we need, the last thing we need is another four years of Barack Obama. We dont need that, believe me.
Thats what were going to get if we get her.
But the e-mails also show yet again that the DNC, Democratic National Committee, rigged the Democratic election, the primary process, to take it away from Bernie and give it to Hillary Clinton. The DNC vice chair was caught feeding information about Bernie Sanderss plans to the Clinton campaign. Youre not supposed to do that. Its supposed to be -- you know, if I was Bernie I wouldnt be too happy after watching what came out today on WikiLeaks. Bernie was used.
And in all fairness, Bernie made a deal with the devil and he made a big mistake. He could have gone down as something very important in American history. When he made that deal, he sold out, he sold out, and very, very bad. But to all the Bernie voters out there, dont vote for a Wall Street sellout like Hillary Clinton.
And remember this, the one thing I had in mind and the one thing we had in common with crooked Hillary was borders. The borders are much stronger, thats why I have all the endorsements from everybody on the borders. But Bernie knew that we were getting ripped off on trade and he was right, except my numbers are much different. Were going to redo it. Were going to have unbelievable trade deals. Were going to make unbelievable deals.
But to the Bernie Sanders people, you got sold out. But remember this, Im much stronger on trade, so much stronger on trade than Bernie. And trade was a big deal because he was right, we are getting sold out. Our jobs are being lost, our jobs are being taken, were being sold out. A vote for Hillary is a vote for more reckless foreign invasions, more Wall Street cheating, more terrible trade deals.
And as confirmed just today by WikiLeaks, Hillary also wants to cute Medicare and Social Security. She wants to do that.
A vote for Trump is a vote for America first and its a vote to protect Medicare and Social Security. Believe me, were going to protect our Medicare. Were going to protect our Social Security. Shes not going to do it.
Shes also going to raise your taxes big league, folks, and were going to lower your taxes. Minor, minor thing, but just remember it.
WikiLeaks also shows something Ive been warning everybody -- everybody -- about for a long time. The media is simply an extension of Hillary Clintons campaign. Its just one more way that the system is rigged, a big way, really a big way.
Reporters who work for these outlets, like The Washington Post or The New York Times, may think of themselves as journalists, but theyre actually just cogs in a corporate political machine. The dishonesty of The New York Times is unbelievable. The dishonest of The Washington Post is unbelievable. The dishonesty of all of those cameras, so many of them, not all of them, is unbelievable.
The e-mails show The New York Times, the Boston Globe, Univision, a third-rate reporter named John Harwood, what a third-rate reporter that one is, remember he did the debate and made a total fool of himself, hes with CNBC, all doing favors for the Clintons. And reporters smothering the Clintons with praise. Why? Why?
You saw Hillary on the debate stage. Do you think thats really worthy? Do you really think thats worthy, folks? Do you think thats what this country is all about?
The New York Times even gave Clinton veto power over her quotes in a major story. Ive never heard about that. Id like to have veto power when they misquote me all the time. Its actually corruption.
The e-mails also show that Hillary was given the CNN town hall questions before her big debate against Bernie Sanders. Is that possible? Donna Brazile, the DNC vice chair, e-mailed, From time to time I get questions in advance
No!
Im starting to feel, really, arent we starting to feel sorry for Bernie Sanders, like, a little bit, right?
The media cant report on the establishment because the media largely is the establishment. And the corrupt media is teamed up against you, the American people.
And I used to get great press until I said Im running. And then they said hes running, we dont want him to run. But I used to get great -- who got better press than me? I got great press, a lot of press. My wife said the other day you used to get such great press, now every single story is a slant. And Ill tell you what, its libelous, its slanderous, its horrible and its really unfair. But were going to beat the system, were going to beat the system.
Were going to break up the failed establishment, end the chronic corruption and create a new and bright American future. I didnt need to do this. Folks, I didnt need to do this, but we have to do it. And we have the greatest people on earth. The people of our country, these are the greatest people on earth. Ive gotten to know so many. Our veterans are so incredible, theyre not being taken care of. Our military, our police, we have the greatest people on earth.
Hillary Clinton, the candidate of the past, today dredged up Al Gore. Did you see him? Anybody see him?
Didnt he say he was the founder of the internet? He wasnt. To campaign with her in Florida. Al Gore wants to eliminate the combustion engine, essentially, and flies around the world on jets and pushes plans that would help create China, make it stronger. They make so much of our product, they make so much. They make so many of our big windmills. And, you know, when theyre making them, that steel, and all of that stuff that they talk about going up into the air, but if its got to go up into the air, maybe we should be making them instead of China, Germany and other places.
The Obama-Clinton EPA spent billions on failed climate projects instead of repairing water infrastructure in cities like Flint. Remember Flint? What a shame.
My administration will address important environmental priorities, like the Everglades, and ensure quality water all across America, including the fixing of water problems like Lake Okeechobee. Its amazing, you know, Lake Okeechobee. Theyre always letting the water out. Do you ever notice we always have droughts? Theyre always letting the water out. I said keep it in, we wont have so many droughts, we wont have any droughts. But Lake Okeechobee -- and, you know, a lot of things have happened.
Hillary has received millions of dollars from donors who want to shut down American energy altogether. Radical activists, like Tom Steyer, have promised to spend more than $70 million this election to get Clinton and Democrats like her elected. In return, Clinton wants to shut down energy production all across the United States. Wait until you see your energy bills.
Were going to put the miners and the steelworkers of our country back to work. Well do it.
Hillary Clinton and Al Gore support the Paris deal which will cost America over $5 trillion and cause Florida electricity rates to skyrocket over the years, skyrocket. Think of it, were going to spend $5 trillion. And you know whats going to happen? Were going to become noncompetitive with other countries. Other countries are eating our lunch right now. Theyre eating our lunch. Were going to become noncompetitive.
The Paris deal also allows China, the worlds largest polluter by far, to increase emissions for more than a dozen years while the United States makes drastic cuts immediately, right now. Whats that all about? Why arent we doing it together? Whats that about? Who negotiates our deals? Its one more way the Clintons have surrendered American prosperity to China and so many other countries. We are led by people that are grossly incompetent. Theyre grossly incompetent.
How about the $400 million in cash that they gave Iran that turned out to be $1.7 billion?
You know what $1.7 billion is? Its like this stage loaded up with money. Nobodys ever seen it. Can you imagine these people in Iran when they see the money? They say, can you believe this? Boy, did we hit the jackpot. Three years ago, before we made them rich, as a country they were ready to go, but we made them rich, we made them rich. How about the 800 people ready for deportation? Remember, two weeks ago, ready for deportation, they made a mistake, they all became United States citizens, right? And these were people that were not exactly too good, thats why they were being deported. But the 800 turned out to be wrong. Somebody actually said Trump was wrong on the number. I said, oh, man, here we got. Was it 400, was it 799? Not, I guess it was, what, 1,700, 1,800 it turned out. It was much more than the 800. They said I was wrong because I was low. The whole thing is crazy.
So I said, you know what? Thats OK, just reverse the -- you know, you can deport them. They said that wouldnt be constitutional. Hey, folks, folks, were being led by stupid people. Were being led by stupid people.
And Hillary Clinton will be worse than Obama. If Im elected president, we are going to start winning again. We dont win anymore. The WikiLeaks speeches even showed Clinton praising the president of China for promising to assert his authority. My energy proposals will unlock the $50 trillion in energy reserves right here in America. This means new jobs in Florida, not new jobs in China. Were going to make America first, folks. America first.
Its all part of our plan to make America rich again. But to make America rich again, we also have to repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare." ""ts all part of our pl"
Bill Clinton, in a rare moment of truth-telling, said Obamacare" was a crazy system where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. Now
Premiums are going to surge next year here in Florida beyond what youve ever seen before and all across the country. I just left Texas, great state, theyve gone up 60 percent through Blue Cross Blue Shield, 60 percent. And remember this, the election on November 8th, theyre trying to announce many of these massive increases after the election. Dont let it happen. Youre going to have 100 percent increases, youre going to have 95 percent increases. But youve already got 68 percent, 72 percent. Insurers are fleeing, patients are losing their doctors. Remember, you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan? Twenty-eight times, Obama said that. He lied!
And the best students dont want to be doctors anymore. They used to want to be doctors. Doctors have more accountants working for them now than they have nurses, its so complicated. Its a giant mess, a giant catastrophe that will destroy American health care for good if we dont get rid of it. And this election is going to be so pivotal in terms of your health care, in terms of costs for health care. So remember, youre going to get great health care at a far, far reduced cost. Its going to be much less expensive. This Obamacare" is a nightmare. It is a nightmare.""nd the best students dont want to be doctors"
And by the way, Hillary Clinton wants to go to single payer. The governments going to take care of your everything. Its going to cost so much money.
You know, in Canada, where they have a better version than what shes talking about, when people with some money want an operation, they come into the United States to get it. Its slow, it doesnt work, doesnt work anywhere. We have concepts that are so good. In fact, concepts that are so good that theyll only get better, so much less money. So we have to repeal and replace Obamacare." Its killing the country and its killing the people that have to pay for it . ""ou know
But you have to get out if were going to do it and you have to vote. Were going to replace Obamacare" with health savings accounts so you can choose the private doctor that you want.""ut you have to get out if were going to do it and you have to vote. Were going to replace"
At the center of our economic revival, well be fixing our terrible, terrible trade deals. If you remember, on June 16th of last year, that is when I said were going to run. You know, it takes a lot of guts and courage to do this. I started off, there were 17 people, great people, all nice people, some didnt, you know, honor their pledge, but these are minor details, right? But we had some great people, many of whom are supporting us, Dr. Ben Carson we have, a great guy, great guy, good man.
Chris Christie, I mean, we have incredible support. Mike Huckabee, hes been so great on television, hes so good.
Hes so good. He said the other night Donald Trump won that debate by a landslide, but that doesnt mean the press is going to report that. They all reported Trump won. But Mike Huckabee said it better. He said Trump won it easy, not even a contest. But that doesnt mean that the CNNs of the world will say that. OK? They wont ever say it. They will never say it.
If the late great Abraham Lincoln debated and he was representing our point of view, CNN would say Abe Lincoln went down to a massive defeat. I mean, these are dishonest people were dealing with. These are very, very dishonest people. And its really a shame. And their ratings are not very good either, thats good. You know why? Because some people they lose credibility.
The New York Times is losing credibility. Remember, they wrote the story about Trump with women? It was on the front page of The New York Times, that I was a little bit lewd -- lewd? But they had the story a few months ago with women and they put it on the front page of The New York Times and then the women called in and said I didnt say that. I like him a lot, hes a great guy. You know, from 30 years ago and 20 years ago and 15 years ago. And I was so honored that they had the courage to do it. But The Times never gave me, you know, any kind of a retraction. Its a disgrace. Whats going on with the media is disgraceful and its happening to all of us, believe me, its happening to all of us.
Forty-seven million Americans are living in poverty and 45 million Americans are on food stamps. This is the legacy of Obama/Clinton. My economic reforms on energy, taxes, regulations and trade will create at least 25 million new jobs over the next 10 years. Its going to be unbelievable. I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created, believe me.
The state of Florida has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and China deals happened.
We love you!
Thank you, I love you, too, darling.
I love Florida! I love the people of Florida!
Ive created many, many jobs in Florida, many, many jobs. You know, jobs in Miami Beach, Doral is a tremendous success and Mar-a- Lago and the clubs and weve done all of that. Hillary has done nothing for Florida.
And remember, when we were in the primary, I ran against Marco, Jeb, all these guys, and we had a great -- hey, look Marcos been very, very nice lately and I hope he wins, I do. But we won by 21 points. Remember that? Everyone said, what happened?
How about all of these states? You know, I went into a couple of states, Trump was one point down, doesnt look like -- and then we win by, like, 14 points. We could have this happen. Were pretty even in Florida and Im a little disappointed because Hillary hasnt created a job and Ive created thousands of jobs in Florida, thousands.
I mean, at Doral I have over a thousand people working just at Doral itself. Mar-a-Lago, Trump International, many, many jobs, buildings along the beach in Miami. You know, weve created a lot of jobs. So, Florida, if you guys dont vote me as a victor Im going to be very angry at you. Hillary doesnt come down to Florida. She comes down to Florida to try and get your vote, then you wont see her anymore.
If Hillary Clinton gets in, the manufacturing thats left in Florida, Ohio, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Michigan will be shipped to other countries, shipped overseas and go to Mexico. Look, theres no doubt about that.
If I win, day one were going to announce our plans to totally renegotiate NAFTA which is a one-way street for businesses to leave our country.
They get the businesses, they get the cash. And you know what we get? We get the drugs, thats what we get. We get nothing. We get unemployment and we get drugs.
The years of all-talk, no-action politicians like her will end. Im not controlled by special interests, so Ill immediately begin to go to work on this. Thats why Im putting up my own money, for the most part, other than were getting massive amounts of small contributions, average $61. You saw the numbers. In fact, theyre going to be announced tomorrow, set records for a Republican on the small contributions. I love that. I love that. And were doing good.
And we just came out with a new commercial on crooked Hillary. Shes crooked as a $3 bill. I used to say a $2 bill, but now they make $2 bills.
If we dont get the deal we want on NAFTA -- remember this, remember I said it -- we will leave NAFTA and start over again and make a much better deal. OK? We will terminate.
A Trump administration will also stand up to Chinas product dumping and currency cheating and the steel. What theyre doing to our steel companies is unbelievable with the dumping. Were going to start making things again in America. Were going to have Apple make their iPhones and make things in this country, not make everything in China and Vietnam and these other countries.
Were going to bring Apple and many other companies, theyre going to be back in the United States.
Our jobs, were going with much lower business taxes. Were bringing the tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent and we are going to be booming again. Our taxes are so high, our taxes are so high that businesses are forced to leave.
And by the way, when businesses want to be ripped out of Florida, ripped out of your community, not going to happen anymore because theres going to be consequences. Like Carrier air conditioning in the state of Indiana, where Mike Pence, by the way, is doing a great job for me. Do we like Mike?
OK. So Mike did a great job. He absolutely beat Tim Kaine, who, you know, Tim Kaine raised taxes in his first week when he was governor of Virginia, not a popular governor, he raised them by $4 billion. Mike on the other hand, Indiana, you take a look, I mean, he has done such a great job.
So heres my question to you? By cheering, who did better in the debate? Are you ready? Youre going to cheer, youre going to let me know. So I did very well. Did you see Hillary today? Did everybody see the debate? Yeah, you lost, got killed. No, I look forward. Next week we have another one. I look forward.
Hey, did you see -- wait, wait, wait. Did you see where she said that I entered her space. So here I am, Im standing, right? You saw that. This is a liar. So Im standing at my podium, Ive got my chair, and crooked Hillary walks across the stage right in front of me. Im standing. I didnt move, right? Right? So Im standing and she walks across the stage, shes standing right in front of me. I didnt care. I didnt care. And shes answering a question and then she walks right back. OK, thats fine. I didnt make a big deal. Next day I read the paper, he entered my space. She entered my space, right? But did you see what she said, that I entered her space? I didnt move. And I was very careful because years ago somebody did come in and talk to her and the poor guy, Lazio, he got just killed. So I said Im not getting near this woman. No, Im not getting near this woman at all, no interest, no interest, I have no interest.
But you saw that, right? So Im standing there, she walks, she stands right next to me. And the next day they said Donald Trump entered her space. These are dishonest people. Anyway, but next week we have another debate in Las Vegas, so thatll be fun.
America, if I get elected, will become -- when, when? They always go, when, when? But I like to, you know -- gotta leave here, you dont want to sound too egotistical. The polls are pretty even in Florida. You dont let me down!
Dont let me down. Honestly, dont let yourselves down maybe more importantly.
America will become the great jobs magnet of the world, remember that.
Were also going to fix our inner cities and help our Latino Americans. And believe me, thats what we have to do. The Hispanics in this country have been treated very unfairly. The African Americans have been treated very, very unfairly. Forty-five percent of African-American youth live in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of American-American youth dont have jobs. Only 41 percent own their own home. Thats much, much lower than other groups, 41 percent. Thats a very low number, one of the lowest.
More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January 1st, 3,000 people. So the inner cities dont have jobs, have a lousy education, right, have lousy, horrible, and theyre unsafe. You get shot walking to the store.
So I say to the African Americans suffering in our inner cities, what do you have to lose? Vote for Donald Trump, what do you have to lose?
I will fix it. I will do the job. And in four years from now when we have another election, I will win with African Americans and I will win with Hispanics in very large numbers. Were going to fix it. These politicians have been lying to you for years, these Democrats. Theyve run the inner cities for up to a hundred years, even more, uninterrupted, and they come for your vote every four years.
Hillary Clinton comes for your vote and youll get a vote and then after you get the vote shell say bye-bye, Ill see you in four years. She doesnt do anything. She didnt do anything for New York state. Remember upstate New York? A disaster. She came out and she said in upstate New York shes going to create 200,000 jobs. Guess what? Everybody left, it was, like, a disaster. She was a disaster. And shes a bad person, remember that. Shes a bad, bad person.
I will fight harder for you than anyone ever has fought before. And thats why I want to get the African-American vote and I want to get the Hispanic vote. Were going to fix your communities, were going to fix those inner cities for once and for all. Were going to fix them and were going to create jobs and great education. And were going to have safe inner cities instead of these horrible, horrible death traps. And thats what they are.
Were going to fight for the Latinos trapped in poverty, that includes school choice for every low-income African-American and Latino, Hispanic child in this nation. Disadvantaged children will be able to send their kids to the public, private, charter or magnet school of their choice.
I also have a message for our wonderful Cuban-American community. Any Cubans here? Cuban, Cuban American? Not too many, but Ill say it anyway, all right? Obama made a one-sided deal with the Castro regime by executive order. Everythings executive order because he doesnt have enough time because hes playing so much golf. He doesnt have enough time to convince Congress to do it. This guy plays more golf than people on the PGA tour.
We will cancel the Obama order unless we get the deal that we want, including political and religious freedom for the people of Cuba. We will also stand with our friends in Venezuela as they struggle for freedom. And Doral is located in a big community where we have tremendous numbers of people from Venezuela, amazing people. The people of Venezuela and Cuba know how dangerous corruption is and how dangerous socialism is, two more reasons why we have to keep crooked Hillary Clinton out of the White House.
Here are some more amazing things as we finish up that were going to do for our country starting in 2017, right around the corner. We are going to massively cut taxes and regulations. She is going to increase taxes substantially.
Were going to protect internet freedom. You see where they want to sell now, they want to have the internet run by the world? Right? Did you see what Obama wants to do? Oh, I hope we can stop that deal fast. Did you see that? Wants to give up that tremendous right.
Were going to defend religious liberty.
Were going to safeguard our very obsolete electrical grid from cyberattack. Cyberattack is a new, big problem.
Were going to rebuild our depleted military. And we are going to take care of our great veterans. We have tremendous veteran support, tremendous veteran support.
Were going to construct a state-of-the-art system of missile defense. Were going to expand Americas true role as a leader in space.
We are going to save our Second Amendment which is under siege by Hillary Clinton.
And the National Rifle Association, the NRA, as you know, endorsed me, the earliest endorsement theyve ever given to a presidential candidate.
And we are going to, and this is so important, appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
You have 28 days to make every dream that you ever dreamed for your country to come true, on November 8th, its so important. The arrogance of Washington, D.C. will come face-to-face with the righteous verdict of the American voter, you.
We are going to replace our corrupt global establishment that has failed us on the borders, on trade, on foreign policy, on the economy and so much more. We dont win anymore, folks. We dont win anymore. When did you see us win? We lose on trade. We cant beat ISIS.
Oh, by the way, were going to knock the hell out of ISIS. Were going to knock the hell out of them.
Were going to replace the failed leadership in Washington, who have betrayed you, squandered your wealth and sold out your country.
And by the way, were going to have very strong borders and we will build the wall and we will stop drugs from pouring in.
No, we will build the wall. OK, folks, are you ready? Whos going to pay for the wall?
Mexico?
Hundred percent. They might not know it yet, but they will.
Look, Mexicos great and the people are great I got to meet three weeks ago. You probably saw, I went to Mexico, I met with the president and it was great. And were going to build a way and theyre going to pay. The reason theyre going to pay, theyre making a fortune. Theyre making a fortune on trade. Our trade deficit with Mexico is massive. Our trade deficit with China is beyond anything you could even imagine.
Worldwide on trade, we lost almost $800 billion last year. You say to yourself, who negotiates these deals? We have a few of my friends here, theyre good business people, theyre sitting here and theyre saying, who negotiates these deals? Theyre in the audience. One guy is looking at me, hes laughing now, hes saying, who? Incompetent people or corrupt people, OK? Theyre either incompetent or corrupt.
Im asking all Americans, Republicans, independents and Democrats, to join us in our campaign to give our government back to the American people.
I am going to fight for every citizen of every background, from every stretch of this nation. And Im going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. Were a divided country, folks. Were divided in so many ways. Were going to be a unified country again. Were going to love each other, everybody, not just the people here. Were going to love each other.
And by the way, is there ever a better or safer place to be than a Trump rally?
You better make sure we win or there will be no more Trump rallies, to hell with that, to hell with the rallies.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag.
Youre going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. Youre going to remember this day. This is a movement like nobody has ever seen before. It really is, its an amazing thing. We take it for granted almost. Its an amazing thing when we go out to Pennsylvania, we had 20,000 people. We go to Alabaman, we had 35,000 people. We go to different places and we get crowds that nobody has ever seen before for what were doing. And I dont have a guitar. Somebody said you get the biggest crowds in the world for a guy with a guitar, which is an interesting -- its an interesting way of looking at it.
Ill tell you who said that, a very famous guy, but I better not, Ill get him in trouble. Happens to be very liberal, I will really get him in trouble.
Were going to make history together. Youre going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most important vote that youve ever cast at any time in your life, November 8th. A vote for me is a vote for change. A vote for me is really a vote for you. Were going to run things right.
America first. Remember, America first. We are going to put our country first for the first time in a long time.
Once again, were going to have a government of, by and for the people.
We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again!
