Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Delivers Remarks at Iowa GOP Fundraising Dinner in Iowa|June 11, 2019
Wow, what a group. It is a big deal. And Jeff, I want to thank you very much. You did a fantastic job and we really do, we appreciate it. Everybody in this room appreciate it. Thats why Im here, Jeff, thats why Im here. You do a great job, thank you. And it is wonderful to be back in Iowa, right here in the heartland of America.
You know it is the heartland of America and I love it, and we won it by a lot, and were here to win it again by a lot. And Ive just come from being with hundreds of your states amazing farmers, where we celebrated the lifting of restrictions on ethanol, that was never going to happen. That was never going to happen, and now not only is it happening, but its happening in a very big way.
I just promised and, you know, I went right from the beginning, I came here and I promised because it was the right thing to do, going forward. E15 will be sold in every single day of the year. Its going to be sold 24/7. Its going to be sold, as you know, 12 months, instead of eight months or six months or whatever they cut you to, and you have it so good luck with your E15. We got it done. We got it done.
Thats really good for the farmers, and sit down please, I appreciate your standing so long. I shouldve told you to sit down earlier. I love you too. Youre not my type, but thats OK. Thank you very much, I appreciate it. So now Im thrilled to be here with all of you, the proud patriots of Iowa, GOP, and Iowas a very special place to me. Together were truly making America great again. Its happening every day. Its happening every single day.
In fact, I have to make a decision very soon. Make America Great Again, maybe one of the great slogans in the history of politics. I mean, it cant be bad, can it? Because we did something that nobody thought was even possible, and we ended up with 306 to 223, thats a pretty big victory. So we have to make a decision Make America Great Again or Keep America Great, Keep America Great or Make America Great Again.
What do I do? Youre ready, well go with MAGA first. You know, MAGA has been awfully good. The problem with getting rid of MAGA, well never get rid of it, itll always be right here and itll be always a part, but the problem is, when you have the most successful campaign, theme, or logo, or whatever you want to call it, and the wor... -- you know, MAGA is a great -- sort of it works, right? When you have that to give it up for a new theme. I dont know if it makes sense, but Keep America Great, KAG, I dont know if I like that as much.
KAG, but Keep America Great says it. We want -- we have made America great, weve made so much progress and we sort of made America great, so to say Make America Great Again. I dont know . Let me ask you for a poll. Can I ask you? Well go MAGA first, then well go Keep America Great, all right, you ready? Make America Great Again. Keep America Great. So once more, Make America Great Again, Keep America Great.  to say, it slightly beat it out, right? All right. Thank you very much.
Thats a free poll. You know polls show me the damn thing. We proved that, didnt we prove that? Did anybody ever prove it like we proved it? That had me losing Texas, we won by a lot. They had been losing Utah, we won by a lot. They said, Georgia, Georgia. You know whos here tonight? George Stephanopoulos, the great George Stephanopoulos.
Where are you George? Hes around here someplace, I think. He happens to be a nice guy. You said he left, I think so. Thank you, George. Thank you very much. Now we have a lot of great people here, but we had a lot of phony polls. We call them suppression polls, you know that is? Thats suppression. Darling hes not going to win, but lets go see a movie, we wont bother voting and then well go home and well watch the results. Except the problem was nobody felt that and they went out and they voted. Suppression polls didnt matter.
It was an amaze -- was that one of the great nights in history? Really, 2016. What do you think, Jeff? I think so, Jeff, right? I think that was one of the greats ever one of the highest rated evenings in history. There were more people watching television all over the world that night, but I especially want to thank our terrific Republican leaders. We have a very, very strong, powerful, brilliant governor with us tonight, Kim Reynolds. And she came through with an amazing victory. You know, all I heard is she was doing well. Stand up Kim.
I heard she was doing really, really well, but she had a guy with like unlimited money. He was spending like nobodys ever spent before and I said, "Dont worry, shell win.", and we came in. We did a couple of rallies and they worked out. Well, I said shes going to win, but I didnt know she was going to win so easily. That was great.
Great job, Kim. Thank you very much. Hes a great governor. Thank you very much. We have your very highly respected, great person, your house speaker, state House speaker, Linda Upmeyer. Wheres Linda? Linda Upmeyer. Thank you. Thank you, Linda. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Great job. And we have your majority leader, Jack Whitver. Wheres Jack? Jack Whitver. Thank you, Jack. Young guy. Hes a young guy.
Every elected Republican is indebted to the grassroots activists, volunteers, and county chairs, who fight so hard and they fight so hard in your state. I want to especially recognize Gary Nystrom, and -- do you know wheres Gary? Wheres Gary? Gary. Gary. Thank you, Gary. Thank you very much. Garys from Boone County. Anybody ever heard of Boone County? Because I did. Spend a lot of time in Boone County.
Gloria Mazza from Polk County. Gloria? These are the brightest lights. I dont see Gloria. Thank you, Gloria. Trudy Caviness from Wapello County. Thank you. Great job. Fantastic. Jeanita, I love that name, Jeanita McNulty from Scott County. Thank you, Jeanita, thank you. And finally, to all of our wonderful supporters, your drive and commitment are the heart and soul of this party, and this is a great party, were doing fantastic things, so, thank you all very much, and I want to thank you for something else.
I do it and you do it. We have a tendency to want to do it and theyve wanted to do it for years, but they havent. We put America first, were putting America first again, folks. And this is truly an extraordinary time for our nation. America is thriving, optimism is booming, our people are prospering, and our country is winning again. Winning, winning, winning, winning again. Were winning like never before. Were doing great and were respected again all over the world. They respect us again. They werent so respectful for a long number of years, but they respect us again as a country.
Americas economy is now the envy of the world. Since the election weve added six million jobs, including a half a million manufacturing jobs. Remember, you would never be able, past administration, you cant, you need a magic wand. Well, we have 500,000 already added and a lot coming, because we have a lot of companies moving in and there are a lot of manufacturing jobs. So they said that couldnt be done and we did it very easily and we have a long way to go. Nearly seven million Americans have been lifted off food stamps, we are getting Americans off of welfare and back into the workforce, where they want to be.
Unemployment is now at the lowest rate in over 51 years, think of that, and well still be breaking that record. And African-American, Hispanic-American, and Asian-American unemployment have all reached the lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our country. Thats pretty good. Wages are rising and theyre growing fastest, which makes me very happy. Listen to this one, fastest, proportionately for blue-collar workers. Its great.
Theyre doing the best. And over the next three months, companies are expected to hire workers at the fastest pace in more than a decade, with the greatest gains for workers right here in the Midwest. Do you know that? You have the greatest gains, any place in the country, the Midwest. And the last administration delivered low wages, economic stagnation, and rampant off shoring. Countries did not respect what we were all about. They took advantage of our country, they took our jobs, they took our businesses, they took everything.
Theyre all coming back and theyre coming back very, very fast. And weve turned it all around, and jobs, and wealth are now pouring back into our country at the heart of our economic revival is the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We have the greatest tax cuts in American history. And not only that, but in the bill, as you know, we got rid of the individual mandate. The worst thing in Obamacare, where you paid a fortune for the privilege of not paying for horrible health care, very unpopular, I got rid of it. I got rid of it.
And we also got a thing called ANWR, possibly the biggest drilling site anywhere in the world in Alaska, one of the biggest drilling sites, but maybe the biggest anywhere in the world. Theyve been trying to get it since Ronald Reagan, they were not able to get it. We got it all approved, its done, and theyre starting work. Thats been a great achievement. Its been a great achievement. We eliminated the unfair estate tax, also known as the death tax on small farms and ranches and businesses so that they can keep them in the family. If you love your children, you can keep them in the family.
If you dont love your children, what I just got you doesnt mean a damn thing. Dont bother. Only give it if you love em. If you dont love them, dont give em. Give it to charity instead, The hell with the kids. But its not a big thing, you know, so many people are losing, they love their kids and they want to leave their farm, their ranch, their business.
They want to leave it and they want to leave it to their children. They couldnt do it because it would be left and theyd have to go out or borrow a fortune to pay the taxes. So now you dont have those taxes anymore. So children, congratulations. Parents, theyre not going to be around to worry about it too much anymore, so congratulations.
And weve cut a record number of job-killing regulations. No administration has ever cut regulations like that, right? And the last administration waged a regulatory assault on the American farmers, you know that. I mean, they were, that was an assault, an invasion. Those days are over and those regulations are now gone.
Weve also ended the war on American energy. The United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world by far. And last year we exported a record amount of ethanol. Does everybody like ethanol in this room? Theyre doing a fantastic job in Iowa, Nebraska, and other places with ethanol. Were undoing decades of calamitous trade policies and reversing eight painful years of economic surrender.
We have surrendered, we had. Were not surrendering anymore. You probably read the papers, although much of it is fake news, but thats OK. You get the gist of it, right? Theres no surrender, theres no surrender. Now we just did a wonderful deal on the border with Mexico and its gonna be a big difference and were doing a job with China, and watch what happens with China. Watch what happens, you know, we just opened up Japan for cattle and different things.
You know, Japan, the market was totally closed, we just opened it. I just left Prime Minister Rabbi, and we have many other countries that are opening up. Canada, if you look at Canada, they were charging 285% for agricultural products, tariffs of 285%. Nobody knew that, we knew that, and essentially thats a barrier. We knocked it down. Again, weve got the USMCA, its going to be fantastic, got to get it approved, so you got to call those Democrats and say, lets go, we want to vote, because its going to be phenomenal for your state and its going to be phenomenal for the farmers and for the manufacturers and frankly, for the unions, its great for everybody.
The economic policies of the previous administration and rich foreign nations at the expense of our nation, and not only the previous administration, many administrations before them. They allowed foreign nations to plunder our country, to steal our jobs, to take our wealth. Its all coming back, folks. You notice? Its all coming back. Were ending the rampant theft of American jobs, knocking down barriers to American farmers and opening brand new markets for American agriculture.
But despite our amazing success, the Democrat Party has never been angrier, theyre so angry. Do you ever see a people so angry? For what, for what? These are angry people. Every day the Democrat Party is becoming more and more unhinged and more and more extreme, theyre going crazy. Do you love it? I sort of love it, right? They cant see straight every day, every single day. You know they waited for the Mueller report.
They were waiting, waiting. That was their guy. They had 18 angry Democrats, all Democrats, many of whom contributed to crooked Hillary, and these were the people that were looking at me. Did nothing, no collusion. The result comes out, no collusion, leading to no obstruction. No nothing. So now they say, "Can we have a do over?"
No, we dont want to give em a do over. Theyre playing games. More than 100 Democrats in Congress never signed up for the Bernie Sanders government takeover of health care, which would eliminate the private health insurance that many of the people in this room have. But we have 180 million Americans having great private health care and thats what they want and that would all be taken away.
Democrats also support the 100-trillion-dollar Green New Deal. How about that beauty? The Green New Deal, conceived and made up by a young woman who is well, lets see how she works out, which would totally destroy the American economy, other than that, its not bad. They think they can do it for $100 trillion.
You know, according to it, if you really go by that rule, every single building in New York would have to be ripped down and rebuilt as a different building, and they have buildings in New York, you wouldnt have windows, the building would be quite good, except you wouldnt have windows. Would anybody like that, a building without windows?
I think that would be very pretty, wouldnt it? The Green New Deal, thats a real beauty. The Democrat -- but I dont want to talk about it. I dont want to go too strong tonight, so I wont. We wont talk about it anymore, because I want them to do it. I want to run against it so badly. You know like they flip on these policies so quickly. No, its true. Its true.
They flip on these policies so quickly. I dont want to -- you know, and then everybody forgets. They go from one thing for a lifetime and then they flip and they go to something totally different, the opposite, and everybody forgets in two or three days and theyre stuck to a new thing, then they usually flip back, you know, depends on which race theyre running it. But the Democrat Party is really now the Socialist Party. The Democrats have never been more out of touch with the mainstream, theyre totally out of touch. They want open borders, which brings crime, drugs, human trafficking.
Virtually, every top Democrat in the country, now supports taxpayer-funded abortion right up until birth. And how about in Virginia, where -- were not talking about up until birth, but the governor of Virginia said after birth. The baby is born and you gently wrap the baby, and then you talk to the mother and maybe the father, and determine whether or not youre going to execute the baby. This baby is born, and this is what they want. Republicans believe that every life is a sacred gift from God. Thank you. Thank you.
You better get out and vote, thats all I can tell you. In so many different ways that your businesses will be taken away, your taxes are going to be quadruple, you better get out and vote. Its a very serious thing thats happening to our country. Weve never done better and its really easy, as a socialist to say when youre doing well. Lets do this were going to take this were going to give you a free this and that nothings free youre paying for it, other people are paying for it, theres nothing free.
Theyll destroy this country. Well be another Venezuela. You see whats going on, that country was really wealthy 15 years ago. Theyve destroyed that country, and I look at it every day, were studying Venezuela. What happened to that country is beyond belief, truly a wealthy country. Thats -- they dont have water, they dont have food, they dont have hospitals, its incredible, dont let it happen to us. And thats why Ive asked Congress in one case and its so important to prohibit all sorts of things that we just cant have, but we want to prohibit extreme late-term abortion. I have to do it.
And even a lot of Democrats agree with us on that. A lot of people agree with us on that. Thats why I oppose any effort to use taxpayer hard-earned dollars to subsidize the abortion industry. And nowhere has the Democrat Party become more dangerous or more radical than on border security. Can you believe whats going on with them? And they know its wrong, look, theyre doing this, they think its good politically.
I think its terrible politically. I think they are hurting themselves politically. Right now, Mexico is doing more for border security than the Democrats, you believe this? Do you believe this? So you know its one of those things, but you probably have noticed over the last three days what happened with respect to the border in Mexico, and I want to thank Mexico, but frankly, you know the tariffs were very important, very, very important, but they stepped up after many years they stepped up to their plate.
Their president is a great gentleman, we had a great talk over the last couple of days and met with their people, and we have things that we never thought possible. We got things that we never thought possible, and its going to be a big difference. And were building a wall thats starting -- started, actually started a while ago. And by next year, at the end of the year, were going to have close to 500 miles of wall. Now were being sued by everybody, but did you see that we won a lawsuit? Last week we won a big lawsuit on the wall. We won a lawsuit on the wall,. Cam, how about that, right?
Boy, I celebrate there all night for about 10 minutes and then I went back to work. But this really is the defining issue of 2020. When it comes to immigration, democrats no longer represent American citizens. They -- where are they coming from? A vote for Democrats is a vote for totally open borders. It all equals a massive cost. It equals massive crime. It equals things that nobody can believe.
You take a look at whats happening. The problems with disease coming into our country. People say, "Oh, dont say that, thats not nice." Happens to be true, but the disease and the problems coming in, and its a very sad situation. Now California wants to take care of everybody, theyre going to end up quadrupling in size in two months if they dont be careful. I mean, its going to -- its crazy whats happening. Whats happening, folks, is crazy and were going to bring it back and weve already brought it back to rationality. But when you look at sanctuary cities and you look at the tremendous problems they want to get rid of ICE, they want ICE out.
ICE is the one that goes in, they go in and theyll attack some of the worst criminals in the world like MS-13, they chop people up, they cut people down, they like knives because theyre more painful than a bullet. What theyve done to young women, what theyve done to men, what theyve done to everybody, and what weve done is we send ICE in and to them its just another day in the office, because theyre tougher, theyre stronger, theyre patriots, but theyre mentally great and theyre going against some real devious. And theyre taking them out of the country, theyre bringing them out by the thousands and theyre getting them out, and the Democrats want to get rid of ICE. Can you believe that? Can you believe that?
So were not going to have it and I was not going to have it and were not going to fall for that, but ICE -- I want to say ICE and the Border Patrol -- you know, border patrols has apprehended over the last three months, numbers that are the biggest in 15, 16, 17 years, theyre apprehending hundreds of thousands of people a month, but now that should start slowing up very substantially, because Mexico is sending 6,000 troops to the border.
Nobody thought that would happen, but its a great thing that its happening, because we have a country that we have to run. We have a country that we have to run. A vote for Republicans is a vote for safe families, safe communities, and strong, strong borders, and we want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally and they have to come in through merit.
We want people that can help us. They have to come in through merit, so were going to probably get that at simpler -- Not to -- I dont think its going to be that far into the future. We believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans not criminal aliens. So were joined and honored tonight to be with a very special woman. An angel mom. I love angel moms, this are great people.
Their lives have been so horribly hurt, but Michelle Root is a special woman, whose precious, beautiful daughter Sarah Root was killed by an illegal alien one day after graduating from college with a 4.0 GPA, thats the highest marks you can get for those of you that dont understand that. That was the highest now, but that was the highest marks.
She was the No. 1 student in her class. Please come up. Please come up. Please come up. Thank you, Michelle. A great woman.
And an even greater man. This man gave us a voice angel families, a voice. No other president would hear our stories. I was fortunate, if you want to say fortunate, enough to have him in the running to become our president.
A lot of other angel families did not have that voice until he came along. Weve always had that voice for Sarah. She was killed January 31st, 2016, within a day of graduating, with a bachelors, as the president has said, 4.0 in criminal investigations. Her killer was 16 years old when he came across the border, unaccompanied illegally.
He killed my daughter at age 19. He had a blood alcohol of point 241, street racing hit the back of my daughters SUV that was stopped at a stoplight going 70 plus miles an hour. My daughter didnt have a chance. I do not, and the reason I speak out, I dont get Sara back at the end of the day.
I speak out because I dont want this happening to any of you. Our wonderful president stands by us and does everything in his power to help us because he doesnt want to see another family have to go through what weve gone through, and I think him for that and Im proud of him for standing as strong as he has against the opposition he has to face daily. I am so proud of you, and so is my family and my son.
Great woman. Your beautiful girl is looking down right now at you and you saying, "Im proud of my mom." Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Ive gotten to know a lot of angel moms, and dads, and families, and what theyve gone through is incredible. Its for no reason whatsoever, so we promise to always remember Sarah and to fight in our memory to protect Americas children, and I want to thank you very much for being -- youve been my friend for a long time, a lot of friends, a lot of friends. Thank you, girl.
The angel moms theyre incredible people what they have to go through, I cannot even imagine. Illegal immigration, not only threatens public safety, but it drains the public treasury, overcrowding schools and hospitals, and depleting the resources low-income Americans depend on. You see whats happening in California, where they just announced a plan to give free health care to illegal immigrants when it could very well be used, all of that money, to provide housing and hospitalization and medical for the rising number of homeless people, then the Democratic run,cities of Los Angeles and San Francisco. Do you see whats happening to those cities?
Can you even believe it whats going on there? People are getting sick just by walking down the street, theyre getting actually sick, including police officers, who are incredible, their job, our law enforcement does is incredible. Democrats put the needs of illegal aliens before the needs of Americans. Republicans believe we must always take care of our own citizens first.
We have to do that. We have that obligation. My administration just proposed a rule to ensure our limited supply of public housing is used for those who follow our laws, not those who break them. We dont have any provisions that say the wrong people cant live in this very expensive housing that our government builds, and yes, we will finish the wall.
Its happening its going up quickly, as I said, and were very proud of what were doing were doing a lot more than we would have ever thought were being fought at every, I mean, every corner, no matter where we go, its a lawsuit, its another lawsuit, its another lawsuit. The incredible thing is that almost every Democrat, just a number of years ago, a few years ago, wanted a wall, it didnt get built because they didnt know how to build it, but they wanted a wall and they gave it up in one case. They had the wall set and then they gave it back a year later or two years later, but they wanted a wall, and without that, its just a very tough situation.
Although now I actually think we have something thats going to help very greatly. Every day its promises made and promises kept. Thats a very big obligation that I have. Very big obligation. Thanks to our bold initiative, to bring down the price of prescription drugs. Last year, drug prices went down for the first time in 52 years.
We passed -- in the V.A. we passed, V.A Choice, the veterans. Veter -- you know it was happening, theyd get on line and wait for seven days. Think of yourselves, youre all spoiled people. If you had to wait for two hours, youd be angry at the doctor, right? They wait for seven days, then wait for 12 days and wait for two months.
Theyd be in line forever and sometimes theyd be up there with a very small problem and then end up being terminally ill by the time they got to a doctor, and we passed Choice so that they have a choice. If they have a wait, they go outside, they go to a local doctor, we pay for the doctor and our veterans taken care of. And you know what, a crazy thing is we save a lot of money by doing that, if you can believe that, but we save a lot of money and everybodys happy about it, and for 44 years theyve been trying to get it passed and they havent been able, and I got it passed.
My administration, Im very proud of everybody that worked on it. And then we passed also another one, that was 45 years, V.A. accountability. V.A. accountability, where people that worked at the V.A. could be sadistic. They could do horrible things to our vets, which they wouldnt have done in prime time, because they wouldnt have lasted for five seconds, but they were sadistic. They were thieves, they were robbing people, they were hurting people, our vets and you couldnt fire em. And we had passed through the Republican Senate and we got it done.
We got it all done, V.A. accountability. So we got V.A choice, V.A, accountability. We can now look at whoever it may be and just say, youre fired, get out of here. Youre fired, get out, get out. Thats a big thing. They were having people that would steal. They had one case where somebody stole a half a million dollars.
They knew, they were guilty, and you couldnt fire em. They could prosecute him, but they couldnt fire him. Think of it, its like impossible to live. And that had to do frankly with unions and it had to do with civil service, and its not as easy as I say but, look, 45 years theyve been trying to change it. We changed that one in 44 years. For Choice, we change that one. So weve done a great job for the veterans and were doing a fantastic job and taking care of our veterans. I think, really, for the first time, in many, many years, were very proud of that. Thank you.
And weve confirmed, more than 107 federal judges, right now, as we speak, and we should be up very quickly to 145, and that includes two outstanding Supreme Court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.
We have 145, think of it, federal judges in a very short period of time, and were getting them approved very quickly. Were up to 107. Nobody would have believed thats possible. I signed an order to protect free speech on college campuses, you see whats happening. And were sending a very clear message to Big Tech: Do not censor the American people. because they are censoring certain groups of people. Thats not right. Thats not right.
And theyre -- theyre urging were finally seeing more attention paid to the need for better forest management. I mentioned that term when I was in California at the worst forest fires anyones ever seen. A tremendous number of people killed in one particular area, so, so great the people so great it was just it was like a blow torch, 84 mile, an hour winds, and this was the most -- the steel for the few houses that had steel structure, it was melted, it was melted. You never found the people, it was total incineration and I said, "You need forest management." and they didnt know what I was talking about. They smiled, they laughed.
Turned out I was right because theyd have 15 and 20 years of debris piled up on the floor of the forest and it was so dry like a bone, it was so dry. And if you touch it with even a cigarette, it lights a 100,000, 200,000 acres, and now they agree with me and theyre cleaning up the forests and maybe youll see at last. They havent done enough work yet but youll see that makes a tremendous difference.
Ive had people come to me from other countries and say, "Sir, youre right about the forest." We live in a forest nation. We are a forest nation, its very interesting like certain places, Finland, Austria, others, theyre a forest nation, they say we take care of our forest.
We do what you have to do. You have to get rid of those trees when they fall, because within 18 months, theyre literally like a match, and we werent doing that. In fact, environmentally were being stopped. The environmentalist didnt want us to touch those trees. They thought it was wonderful, let them lay on the ground, you cant do that.
And now theyre doing a lot of work on that whole subject of forest management. I think you going to see a very big difference in the not too distant future. As we restore American strength at home, were also restoring American power abroad. The eight-year apology tour is over. We dont apologize, we dont apologize for America, we stand up for America, we now stand up for our country, we have a great country, we have a great, great country, and we stand up for it.
And in this stark change from the past, were pursuing our interests without getting our nation bogged down in endless costly foreign entanglements. Now that may change, theres some bad things going on out there that should have been stopped long before this administration and maybe long before the previous administration.
When you look at North Korea, when you look at Iran, when you look at so many other places, but I do believe, weve got it under control. I do believe we have it under control. It should have been done a long time ago. So many different things could have been done so much easier if it was a long time ago, but they never got it done, they never did it. They should have done it, but well take care of it for you, and thanks to the skill and tremendous courage of our brave warriors and their allies, the ISIS caliphate has now been completely decimated in Syria, weve done that.
And you have to understand, there could be -- these are crazy people. These are really crazy, crazy, sick people. So when I say, its done, nothing is never done. Weve taken back all of the land 100% of the land. When I took over it was -- it was shown in red and it was a sea of red, and every month there was less and less, and less, and then as you saw two months ago, we completed that.
But that doesnt mean they dont walk into a store with a bomb and blow up a store, because these people are stone-cold crazy, not good, not good, not good at all. I withdrew the United States from the disastrous Iran nuclear deal, and what a difference that made. The previous administration gave $150 billion to Iran, and they gave 1.8 billion in cash, think of that, 1.8 billion in cash, cash, flown over and airplanes. Massive amounts of cash. Nobodys ever seen a billion in cash. They didnt even have enough American money in our tri-state area next to Washington, with all its -- how big it is. They didnt have the money, so they had to get money from other countries to bring it in cash. They gave them 1.8 billion in cash.
You know we got nothing, we got nothing, we got a bad deal, thats all we got, but we ended the deal. And when they signed that deal they were screaming death to America. You remember? Death to America. How do you sign a deal when theyre screaming death to America? They dont talk that way, anymore, theyre not talking that way anymore. They better not be talking that way.
And after decades of broken promises, we opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Many, many presidents had promised we will open the American embassy and they campaign and they never did it, but I did it, and then, on top of that, just three weeks ago the United States acknowledge Israels sovereignty over the Golan Heights. Its a big thing.
Big, big thing. And thats been going on for 52 years and many American presidents said we will do that, they never did it, they never did it. And I did it, and it was just fine. Its a great thing for Israel. Its actually a great thing for a lot of different people, but you need the Golan Heights for security, for proper security, and we got it done.
The overwhelming majority of Americans support the Republican agenda of great jobs, safe neighborhoods, affordable health care, low taxes and secure borders. Very simple, very simple. And the vast majority of the people, not only in this room but all over this country oppose the Democrat platform of mass migration, high taxes, high crime, late-term abortion and later than late-term abortion, hoaxes and delusions.
The Republican Party is the party of the American family, the American worker, the American farmer, and the American dream. We believe in the Constitution and the rule of law. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.
We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history, and always respect, dearly, our great American flag. And we believe that all Americans share one magnificent destiny. As one team, one people, and one glorious nation under God. We fight on behalf of hard working citizens, who pour out their heart and soul and sweat every day to earn a living and take care of their families.
They pay their taxes, follow our laws raise their children, and safeguard the values that have made America the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth. And our country, right now, is doing so much better in almost all ways than its ever done before. You look at our economy, you look at our military. You can look at so many different things, were doing better than ever before, and its largely because of people like you.
You work hard, you work smart, you work honestly, and we just appreciate it very much very, very much. Thank you.
This land is your home. These American patriots have always been loyal to our country and now theyre finally, having a president who is loyal to them. Its about time, isnt it? And every day for the next 16 months, we will keep on fighting, we will keep on working and we will keep on winning, were going to win for you, were going to win again in 2020, gotta win fo you. Keep America Great. And in 2020, Iowa will once again be at the center of the action.
Remember I said, were going to keep Iowa first. Remember that, Jeff, you remember that? That was a big move to move Iowa to the back of the line or the center of the line, right? We worked very hard. I said, I win, were keeping it, and were keeping it right where it is. Its also a great tradition. I mean, when it look terrible of Iowas the 30-second nation in the voting line.
I dont think it would look too good, right? And Jeff, you worked really hard on that and I appreciate it, thank you. And right here in the Hawkeye State, the backyards and living rooms, and town halls, and fairgrounds, and diners, and coffee shops all across the state. You will be the ones to shape Americas future.
You have a very important state politically, its a very important state. What happens here, oftentimes, determines what happens for our country, in terms of the most important most powerful position in the world. You will be the ones to make American history, and you will be, once again, the ones to in a sense truly lead our country to victory.
So I want to thank all of the people from Iowa, you have been very special to me. Its been a very important place. I got to know it very well. I know the people, I love the people, youre incredible people, your hard working people, successful. And one thing I can tell you about people from Iowa, you never ever give up, you never ever quit, thats for sure.
