Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Delivers a Campaign Speech in Manheim, PA|October 1, 2016
Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. We are going to make America great again. We are. Im thrilled to be here tonight. Beautiful city of Manheim. And Ill tell you what. Were going to win the great state of Pennsylvania. I went to school in Pennsylvania. We are going to win Pennsylvania. Were gonna win back the White House and we are going to be so happy.
We are going to be so happy. And were going to again be proud of our country. We will be proud. Were going to take on the corrupt media, the powerful lobbyists and the special interests that have stolen your jobs, your factories and your future. And thats exactly whats happened. And were going to stop Hillary Clinton from continuing to raid the industry from your state for her profit.
Hillary Clinton has collected millions of dollars from the same global corporations shipping your jobs and your dreams to other countries. You know it and everybody else knows it. Thats why Clinton, if she ever gotten the chance would 100% approve Trans-Pacific Partnership, a total disastrous trade deal.
She called the deal, the gold standard. The TPP will bring economic devastation to Pennsylvania and our campaign is Americas one and only chance to stop that and lots of other bad things that are happening to our country. And she lied about the gold standard the other night at the debate. She said, she didnt say it. She said it. And we dont want to stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
And if we dont, then billions -- and remember this. We dont stop it, billions and billions of jobs and wealth will be vacuum dried out of Pennsylvania and sent to these other countries just like NAFTA. It was a disaster. This will be a disaster. Frankly, I dont think it will be as bad as NAFTA. It cant get any worse than that.
Signed by Bill Clinton. All of us here in this massive room tonight can prevent this from happening. Together, we will stop TPP and we can end the theft of American jobs and prosperity. One man. And folks, we have to do it. Its time. Its time we bring our country back. Its time we act like intelligent people.
Its time that we dont let Mexico and all of these other countries take our jobs, and thats what theyre doing. You look at here, the miners. Look at the way theyve been treated. We are going to protect our miners. We are going to protect our steel workers. We are going to protect our factories and our manufacturing.
Now look, I knew one man. Im not a big fan. But one man who knew the dangerous and the dangers of TPP was Bernie Sanders. Crazy Bernie. He was right about one thing, only one thing and that was trade. And he was right about it because he knew we were getting ripped off, but he wouldnt be able to do anything about it. Were gonna do a lot about it. Were gonna have those highways running the opposite direction.
Were gonna have a lot of trade, but its gonna come in to our country. Were going to -- we are gonna start benefiting our country. Because right now, its a one way road to trouble. Our jobs leave us. Our money leaves us. With Mexico, we get the drugs. They get the cash. That simple. And by the way, by the way, were gonna have a very, very powerful and very, very strong southern border.
And were gonna have drugs stop pouring into our country. And we will build the wall. We are going to stop the drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth and plenty of other people. And were gonna help all of the people in our country, who are so horribly addicted to whats coming in. But were gonna stop it and were gonna stop it fast.
And who is going to pay for the wall? 100%. They may not know it yet, but theyre paying. Believe me, theyre paying. They havent figured that one out yet. Hillary Clinton is controlled by global special interests. Shes on the opposite side of Bernie on the trade issue. Shes totally in the opposite side of Bernie.
A new audiotape that has surfaced just yesterday from another one of Hillarys high roller fundraisers shows her demeaning and mocking Bernie Sanders and all of his supporters. And you know, I tell you something. We have a much bigger movement than Bernie Sanders ever had. Its true. We have much bigger crowds than Bernie Sanders ever had.
Its true. And we have a more important movement than Bernie Sanders ever had because were gonna save our country, OK? Were gonna save our country. But I can tell you that Bernie Sanders would have left a great, great legacy had he not made the deal with the devil. He would have -- he really would have left a great legacy.
Now he shows up at 120 feet, people come in to hear him talk. Bernie Sanders would have left a great legacy had he not made the deal, had he held his head high and walked away. Now hes on the other side perhaps from us. But we want to get along with everybody and we will. Were gonna unite the country. But what Bernie Sanders did to his supporters was very, very unfair and theyre really not his supporters any longer, and theyre not gonna support Hillary Clinton.
I really believe a lot of those people are coming over and largely because of trade, college education, lots of other things but largely because of trade. Theyre coming over to our side. You watch. You watch. Especially after Hillary mocks him and mocks all of those people by attacking him and his supporters as living in their parents basements and trapped in dead-end careers.
Thats not what they are. She describes many of them as ignorant. And they want the United States to be more like Scandinavia, but that half the people dont know what that means in a really sarcastic tone because shes a sarcastic woman. To sum up -- and Ill tell you the other thing. Shes an incompetent woman and Ive seen it. Shes an incompetent woman.
Just take a look at what she touches. It never works out. And you watch. Her run for the presidency will never ever work out because we cant let it work out. To sum up, Hillary Clinton thinks Bernie Sanders supporters are hopeless and ignorant basement dwellers. Then of course, she thinks people who vote for and follow us are deplorable and irredeemable.
I dont think so. I dont think so. We have the smartest people. We have the sharpest people. We have the most amazing people. And you know, in all of the years of this country, they say, even the pundits most of them arent worth the ground theyre standing on. Some of that ground could be fairly wealthy ground, good ground.
But most of these people say that they have never seen a phenomena like its going on. We have crowds like this wherever we go. We have these massive crowds. And some call it the greatest phenomenon theyve ever seen politically in their lives. And I think thats what it is. But remember this. One of them said to me not so long ago.
It doesnt matter if you win or lose, what youve done is amazing. You know what I said? Forget it. Forget it. Because if we dont win on November 8th -- first of all, I have tens and tens of millions of dollars. Nobody else does. I put my own money into this plus we have small supporters. And a limited number of people that just want to help the Republican party.
But I have put self funding in to a level that they havent seen maybe ever or maybe for many, many years. And Ill tell you what, and that money is the least of it. I put a lot of energy. We put a lot of heart and soul. All of us. I know some of you people get here at 12 oclock in the afternoon for this and earlier, right?
I know. I know. I know. Heres the good news. When you leave, is it worth it? Is it worth it? But if we dont win on November 8th, I will say -- I dont care what they write. I dont care. They have to give us a lot of credit. I think they have to give us credit. I will consider it a tremendous waste of time, energy and money.
Believe me. Because if we dont get there, were not gonna be able to do the job. And were gonna be doing something for this country that this country has needed for many, many years. We are going to do something so spectacular. Youre gonna be so proud of your country once again. And youre not proud of your country now.
Youre certainly not proud of your leader. How about last week, are you proud of your leader? How about two weeks ago, $400 million in cash going to Iran, right? Remember the hostages. And then he lied about that. He said, no, no, it wasnt for hostages. But the hostages couldnt leave until they got the cash.
But it turned out to be wrong because now its looking like its -- and get this. See the corners over there? You couldnt fit him in here. $1.7 billion in cash they paid to a terrorist nation. They paid to Iran $1.7 billion. Or how about last week? They were going to deport 800 people. They were all ready for deportation, which means they had problems.
But they made a mistake and instead of deporting these 800 people back to the Middle East. Guess what happened? They became United States citizens. And then that turned out to be wrong just like the $400 million became $1.7 billion. Well, it looks like the 800 people are 1,700 people and welcome, welcome, welcome, folks.
And then I said, well, you made a mistake so undo it. They said, well, we cant do that because that wouldnt be constitutional. The world looks at us like were stupid people, but were not gonna be stupid people much longer, folks. Tell you. And youve gotta go out, youve gotta go out and youve gotta get your friends and youve got to get everybody you know.
And you gotta watch your polling booths because I hear too many stories about Pennsylvania, certain areas. I hear too many bad stories and we cant lose an election because of you know what Im talking about. So go and vote and then go check out areas because a lot of bad things happen. And we dont want to lose for that reason.
We dont want to lose but we especially we dont want to lose for that reason. So go over and watch and watch carefully. Because were gonna win the state of Pennsylvania. And if we win the state of Pennsylvania -- if we win Pennsylvania, we take back the White House. Were leading in Ohio. Were leading in North Carolina.
I think were leading all over the place. Were leading in states that never really played for Republicans, but were leading all over. Were doing so great. If we win the state of Pennsylvania, where I went to school, where my kids went to school. If we win the state of Pennsylvania, we are going to have a country that you are going to be so proud of. Believe me. So lets not forget the other night, the recent debate, which I think I won, to be honest with you.
Even though they gave me a bum mic. OK, so how many people -- did you see that they call it the commission on the debates. The commission, you know, commission. They did a great job. I go to mics all the time. The mics are working. Here, we have the commission on presidential debates. Big fancy name and they gave me a bum mic.
And Ive got a scream into the mic and Ive got friends in the audience and they keep going like this. Whats going on? They gave me a bum mic. So how many people in this room think that maybe that was done on purpose? Yeah. OK. And the headman, after an hour and a half and its over, and I got great press people coming up. Now I got great praise until what happened one minute later, all of the dopes that work at CNN and they said, no Trump loss.
I dont even think half of them watched because they want to change the narrative. But you watch that and if you watch that without being influenced by these phony pundits -- and dont forget folks, theyve been calling us wrong from the beginning. Theyve been calling us wrong from June 16th. We had no chance.
We were running against professionals. We were running against senators and governors and we had no chance, right? And then one by one, bum, bum. And it used to be great. I used to watch these characters on television. Donald Trump has not won 25%. That was early. I said, you know, you got 17 people in the race, right?
Then they go, two weeks later, another victory, another one, another one. They say, Donald Trump has not won 38%. Then I had one where we had a lot of people left and had 49% of the vote with a lot of people. You understand what that means? Its hard to get too many votes. So then we have 49% with a lot of people running and, you know, were talking about senators.
Were talking about governors. Talking about people like Ben Carson, who are great people, no endorsement, but smart people. Good people. Ben Carson, by the way, great guy. But they said, Ill never forget it, 49% with many people. And they said to me and they said right over the television, but Donald Trump has not hit 50% yet.
How the hell do you hit 50% when you have like 11 people left? But then we lost a couple of more. Very sad, very sad to watch. We were all broken up, right? Because I guarantee most of the people in this room were with us from the beginning. So we were up to that, really. And then we started getting 52%, 58%, 66%, 78%, 82%. And they just didnt understand what was going on. And now they said with crooked Hillary Clinton -- thats all we have left is crooked Heller.
I mean heres a woman thats supposed to fight Putin. Heres a woman whos supposed to fight trade deals in China. Theyre ripping us like nobodys ever ripped us in the history of the world. Heres a woman thats supposed to be fighting Putin. Heres a woman that has given Barack Obama such bad advice that I guarantee you if he had the choice to do all over again, go back years, he would have never picked her as secretary of state.
Shes been a disaster. Everything shes done has been bad. Its ended in huge financial loss and death. And I mean death on both sides, death on both sides. You look at whats going on in the Middle East when they bombed these cities then they leveled. You can imagine how many people die. She has been a disaster.
But heres a woman, shes supposed to fight all of these different things. And she cant make it 15 feet to her car. Give me a break. Give me a break. Give me a break. Shes home resting right now. Shes getting ready for her next speech, which is gonna be about 15 minutes and its gonna be in two or three days.
Folks, we need stamina. We need energy. We need people that are gonna turn deals around. We cant let China take advantage of us anymore. And we have the piggy bank. We have the advantage. And by the way, dont worry. You know they like to talk about temperament. You know thats a word they got from Madison Avenue.
Lets see, how can we attack Trump? I have a great temperament. I have, in my opinion, its my -- its like one of my strongest days. I have a winning temperament. But you know, how they choose it? We have a winning temperament because our country doesnt win anymore. Now shes got bad temperament. Shes got -- she could be crazy.
She could actually be crazy. Let me tell you. Did you see -- because all the members are gonna vote. You know the top guys are gonna be with her because the top people -- you know, well tell you about that someday. The AFL CIO. How many members here are in the AFL CIO? Many? All right. Not too many. Where are you?
But the top people are usually against. And the unions, theyre gonna be with me because Im gonna produce jobs. Were gonna build our infrastructure and rebuild our infrastructure. She wouldnt know where to begin. She wouldnt know where to begin. So I only say this. Look, we need somebody who is strong.
We need somebody that knows what theyre doing. Were gonna bring the greatest people. So we have now -- in fact, its gonna be announced next week some additional, 200-plus admirals and generals supporting us, 17 winners of the Congressional Medal of Honor, the recipients. These great recipients of the Congressional, 17. Almost every police organization in the country.
I mean, you take a look, law and order and justice. Law and order and justice. The Border Patrol. Ice -- I mean we have so many thousands and millions and millions of people. And Ill tell you with the unions, we have the support of the people underneath the boss that hits them up there with their million dollar salaries and they work with the Democrats, but they dont get anything.
But we have the support of the people within the unions. We have the support. You watch whats gonna happen. And we have the support of the Hispanics and the African-Americans because they are tired of being ripped off and taken advantage of. Believe me. You watch. You watch. Were gonna have some big beautiful surprises on November 8th, folks.
Hillary Clinton, all but said, that most of the country is racist, including the men and women of law enforcement. She said that the other night. Did anybody like Lester Holt? Did anybody question her when she said that? No, she said it the other night. Youre not a diehard Clinton fan. Youre not a supporter.
From day one Hillary Clinton thinks that youre a defective person. Thats what shes going around saying. How on earth can Hillary Clinton try to lead this country when she has nothing but contempt for the people who live in the country. Shes got contempt. First of all, shes been in so many scandals and shes been caught cheating so much.
And one of the worst things Ive ever witnessed as a citizen of the United States was last week when the FBI director was trying so hard to explain how she got away with what she got away with because she should be in prison. Let me tell you. She should be in prison. And shes being totally protected by the New York Times and The Washington Post and all of the media and CNN, Clinton News Network, which nobody is watching anyway.
So what difference does it make. Dont even watch it. But shes being protected by as many of these groups. And Ill tell you what, its not like, oh gee, do you think shes guilty? Theyve actually admitted shes guilty and then she lies and lies. 33,000 e-mails deleted, bleached, acid-washed and then takes her phones and they hammer the hell out of them.
How many people have acid-washed or bleached a tweet? How many? That you deleted. So you deleted but thats not good enough. Now we got -- this is getting crazy. Our country is becoming a third world country. And Ill tell you, you have great, great people in the Justice Department. You have great, great people in the FBI, great, great people.
And theyre embarrassed by whats going on. They are embarrassed by whats going on. Believe me. Just like youre embarrassed and Im embarrassed. Hillary Clinton slanders and attacks anyone who wants to put America first whether theyre Trump voters  what she said about Bernie voters, amazing.
Like the European Union, she wants to erase our borders and she wants to do it for our donors and she wants people to pour in to our country without knowing who they are. And you want to see problems? You watch. These special interest pay her for speeches and shes a lousy speaker. They pay her foundation.
They pay her husband. In return, they get your jobs. They get your jobs. And youre standing here from Pennsylvania, youre standing here right now and Ill tell you whats happening. People in negotiating and owners of companies are negotiating to move your companies out to Mexico and other places. You watch.
And its getting worse. Its not getting better. Its getting worse. And youre unsuspecting. Right now, you say to your wife, lets go to a movie after Trump. But you wont do that because youll be so high and so excited that no movie is gonna satisfy you, OK? You know why? Honestly, because they dont make movies like they used to. Is that right?
What a difference. Like Ive been saying all week. When it comes to Hillary Clinton, all you have to do is these three words: Follow the money. One in three companies that lobbied for TPP passage donated to the Clinton Foundation as much as $67 million. Nine companies that lobbied for passage of TPP gave Hillary Clinton $2.7 million for speeches.
Now, she does them for free and very few people show up. When she went to Pennsylvania last week. Did you see it? It was a small room they couldnt fill the seats. Look at this place. Look at that. Hey media, turn your cameras over there. Turn your cameras over the. They dont do it. They never turn the cameras.
The only time they turn the cameras because theyre dishonest as hell. And you know, they dont realize one thing. If they showed the kind of -- look at that, all the way out to the door way past. If they show -- and people outside. If they showed the kind of crowds we have, which people can hear. You know, its interesting.
You can hear the crowd when you hear the television, you can hear the crowd. But if they show it, it would be better television. But they dont know much about that. But it would actually be better television. So three TPP member countries gave between $6 million and $15 million to Clinton. At least four lobbyists, who are actively lobbying for TPP passage, have raised more than $800,000 for her campaign.
Im just telling you Pennsylvania, were gonna make it. Were gonna make it. But -- were gonna make it. Were gonna make sure if we have Pennsylvania, thats for sure. Then well make it easy. But Im just telling you, you can not let this pass. NAFTA passed. Its been one of its been the worst trade deal probably ever made not in this country, anywhere in the world.
It cleaned out New England. It cleaned out big portions of Pennsylvania. It cleaned out big portions of Ohio and North Carolina and South Carolina. You cant let it happen. And these bloodsuckers want it to happen. Their politicians that are getting taken care of by people that want it to happen. Other countries want it to happen because its good for them, but its not good for us. So hopefully, youre not gonna let it happen.
Whatever Hillarys donors want, they get. They own her. On November 8th, were gonna end Clinton corruption. Hillary Clinton, dishonest person, is an insider fighting for herself and for her friends. Im an outsider fighting for you. And by the way, just in case youre not aware, I used to be an insider.
But I thought this was the right thing to do. This is the right thing to do. Believe me. For decades, weve talked about the corruption, incompetence and failures of our leaders. 2016, our long-awaited chance, its gonna be our long-awaited chance to bring about real change, not Obama change, but real change.
And remember this, Hillary Clinton will be four more years of Barack Obama and maybe worse and actually may be worse. We cant let that happen. Youre not gonna have a country left. If you do this one simple thing, you can deliver justice for every single person who has been wronged by the system. You have to show up and vote.
When you cast that ballot, just picture a Wall Street boardroom filled with special interests, whove been bleeding our country, whove bleeding Pennsylvania, whove been taking your jobs. Take a look on their faces and you will see smart people that know the game. But people that want to take your jobs and want to take your money.
To them, I say, youre fired. I could be doing The Apprentice right now. I could be. Somehow -- and I loved the 14 seasons. How good was that? Tremendous success. They wanted to extend. I could be doing The Apprentice now. Somehow, I think this is a little bit more important. Do we agree? Just a little bit.
And to the millions of unemployed Americans, were gonna say the two words that I really love. You know what they are? Youre hired. You are hired. Im not a politician. I have no special interest. My only loyalty and I mean this. I didnt need to do this folks. Believe me. This is tough work. This is a little bit like a lot of the people in this room for 17, 18 and even 20 years.
You had a better job 20 years ago than you have now. You got more money. Its better job. Now you have a lot of years. You get less money. In many cases, youre working two jobs and three jobs. So youre working harder, youre older and youre making less money. It supposed to be the other way around. But the only thing I can say to you is Im also working harder.
This is hard work. Believe me, folks. This is hard work. When they told me outside. Sir, your helicopter cannot land tonight. The weather is terrible. I said, how many people are there? They said at least 15,000. I said, are you crazy? Land the helicopter. Now theres no way we were gonna miss it. Theres no way were gonna miss it. And these are amazing people.
We have amazing people in our country. I mean, were gonna bring our country together, everywhere. Were gonna bring our country together. So my only loyalty is to you. Thats my loyalty. I dont care about my company at that point. My kids will run it. My executives will run it. We built a great, great -- this is a great company.
Some of the greatest real estate assets in the world. I figure, you know, they say, oh maybe youll have a conflict? Yeah. If I do a great job as president, theyll probably be more valuable, right? Thats a conflict. But thats like a good conflict, isnt it? So we need proper thinking. Our country doesnt. Can you imagine somebody saying $400 million in cash or $1.7 billion in cash or 800 people and now 1,700 people for deportation now coming back as citizens.
Not legally. As citizens. Hillary Clintons only loyalty is to her financial contributors and to herself. I dont even think shes loyal to Bill, if you want to know the truth. And really, folks, really, why should she be, right? Why should she be? The large corporations who support terrible trade deals that ship your jobs to other countries.
They are donating to crooked Hillary Clinton. The Wall Street investors who have rigged the regulations against the middle class. And by the way, we have middle class, we have really rich people here, we have put people that arent so rich. We have poor people. We have everybody here. We have highly educated people.
I know two of them. And I mean they are -- frankly, I said theyre here. They have too much education. They would have done better with a little bit less, OK? Always angry at me and thats OK. But we have everybody. But we have the most loyal people and everybody says it. We have the people that are gonna get out and vote.
We have the people, no matter what happens, theyre out there. Theyre with us. Because they know what were doing is gonna be so great for our country. The wealthy donors, who want to shut down American energy and thats what theyre doing, theyre giving to Hillary Clinton. You see it all the time. The special interests who want to open borders, theyre donating to Hillary Clinton.
Follow the money. In her campaign for president, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million in contributions from Wall Street and hedge funds. Now look heres a person, whos only worked for government as such, right? And now theyre worth $250 million, folks. Now, its not like they built a big project and they put a lot of people to work.
They say shes worth $200 million, $250 million, OK? Give me a break. How do you do that? How do you do that? If shes worth $250 million. You know how that happened. She and Bill were paid $150 million for speeches since Bill left the Oval Office. The same groups paying Bill and Hillary -- I love you too.
Its a guy that said that. Its a guy but I love him too. Bill and Hillary, for their speeches who are lobbying the federal government. So theyre making speeches. Theyre getting paid. Theyre lobbying the government. Thats nice. 22 groups paying Bill Clinton for speeches lobbied the State Department while Hillary was secretary of state.
$250 million. Favors and access were granted to those who wrote checks. She put the secretary of state up for sale. And if she ever got the chance, shed put the Oval Office up for sale too. Believe me. She deleted and bleached 33,000 e-mails after getting a congressional subpoena. So heres the story folks.
If youre in a private deal and Mrs. Smith is suing you and they want your records and your e-mails and everything. And you say, well, I dont want to give. But you know, you have a court order. Thats just a court. This isnt a congressional. Its a court order. You have to give him. Now heres what happens if you dont give him, if you get rid of him, meaning delete him and do what she did.
They put you in jail. You know, they put you in jail, right? She got a congressional subpoena. I cant believe it. I talk about it. But the FBI doesnt do anything and the Justice Department doesnt do anything. And then Clinton, Bill meets with the attorney general in airplane for 39 minutes. And he said, theyre talking about golf and their grandchildren.
39 minutes. I give two minutes to golf and two or three minutes to the grandchild. And he was supposedly in Arizona just happened to be playing golf. But I think it was 114 degrees that day. Its very hot. I love Arizona. One of my favorite places. But its very hard to play when the temperature goes over 100 degrees, OK? So he was there to play golf, but nobody saw him play golf.
Did anybody see him playing golf? No. He just happened to be standing on the runway when this plane came by. Oh, hi. Hey, Ive had a plane for a long time and nobodys ever done that in years. It doesnt happen that way. Were in a rigged system. And whats taken place is horrible. And Ill tell you and I said it before.
This is all a great embarrassment to our great country. Its a great embarrassment. And people who have done 5% of what she did are suffering grave, grave consequences. You see whats happening to him. The mother crying because of the way theyre treating her boy, who did nothing by comparison. And didnt mean to do it. You see whats going on. General Petraeus.
You see what happened to him? Destroyed his life. Destroyed his life. And it was a tiny, tiny piece compared to what she AHS done. Then shes taken 13 phones and theyre missing and they were destroyed many of them or some of them with a hammer. Foreign enemies with easy access were able to, I dont know if they did, hack her server.
How about the server? How about the server, put in the basement. Lies to Congress under oath about turning over her work-related e-mails. Her staffers taking the Fifth Amendment and her ringleaders getting immunity deals, five immunity deals. Theres nobody left except her, except her. She hasnt gotten immunity yet.
I wonder if Obama is gonna give her immunity. Interesting. She hasnt gotten immunity yet. Shes the only one. Did anybody ever see so many people get immunity? Everybody. Youre guilty. Youre guilty. Well give everybody immunity. Everyone. What do you need to investigative if everyone is gonna get immunity, right?
But she hasnt got that yet. What are her chances of getting immunity from President Obama? Gonna be very interesting. Gonna be very interesting. Clinton and her cronies will say anything, do anything, lie about anything to enrich themselves and keep their grip on power. The American people have had it with years and decades of Clinton corruption and scandals.
Remember, he got impeached for lying. You remember what he lied about. But he got impeached for lying. He cant practice law. He cant be a lawyer. He was a lawyer. Cant be a lawyer. Everyone forgets. We want to take our country back, folks. We want to take our country back. Look at Whitewater. Look at the cattle deal she made.
Friend of mine is in the cattle business. They set the single greatest deals, percentage wise. I mean, she made a percentage gain. I think its got to be some kind of a record in the history of the cattle business. I guess, she knows a lot about cattle. Now its a very serious thing. We have a very, very serious thing happening right now to our country and Ill tell you whos leading it. These people back here.
All of those cameras, theyre leading it because theyre letting her get away with murder. Theyre protecting her. Theyre protecting her. So were tired of the lies. Tired of the trivial politics. Tired of being talked down to, looked down upon and treated like second-class citizens. Its not gonna happen anymore.
This will be the year the American people say, enough is enough. Enough is enough. Hillary Clinton has been a total disaster for so many communities but especially, its so important, for the African American communities. I dont think African-Americans are gonna come out and vote for Clinton. Theyre too smart and they know theyve been used for years and years and years.
They also know that shell do nothing for them once the election is over. She never does and thats never going to change. Many of them will never forget her calling young African-American men, super predators. Thats what she called. To the African-American community, let me ask you just one question. Are you better off than you were eight years ago?
Look, for instance, at our inner cities, look at whats going on. Look at whats going on. Massive levels of poverty. Crime thats out of control. No education. No jobs. Tremendous joblessness. People walk to the office. They walk to get a loaf of bread. They get shot. Their child get shot. Thats going on for decades and decades.
Hillary Clinton and people that think like her and I say this to the African-American community, I say it to the Hispanic community. Vote for Donald Trump. What the hell do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? I will fix it. I will fix it. Ill bring jobs. Ill bring great education. Ill bring safe neighborhoods.
If you keep voting for the same people, youll keep getting the same horrible results. Take a look at whats going out on the streets. Take a look at Charlotte. Take a look at Baltimore. Take a look at Ferguson. Take a look at whats happening out on the streets of our inner cities. Look at Chicago. Thousands and thousands of shootings.
3,000 shootings since January 1st. Its not a long time ago. Its worse than war zones. In many cases, you have cities, inner cities that are worse than war zones and more dangerous than some war zones. A Trump administration will bring prosperity to all of our people. My economic agenda can be summed up in three such beautiful words: Jobs, jobs, jobs.
Were gonna massively reduce taxes for working and middle-class Americans. Every wasteful and unnecessary regulation will be immediately eliminated. Were gonna create jobs. The total catastrophe known as Obamacare will be repealed and replaced. We will lift the restrictions on American energy, including clean coal and shale energy right here in Pennsylvania.
And we will take care of our miners, which Hillary Clinton said he wants to put our mines and our miners out of business. She said that. She wants to put our mines and our miners out of business. Not gonna happen, folks. She also wants to shut down production of shale energy. Not gonna happen. Were going to put the miners back to work.
Were going to unleash the power of shale energy, adding another $50 billion to Pennsylvanias economy. Were going to protect the over 5,000 farms in Lancaster, which I know very well. I was here so much. And by protection that includes lower taxes, less regulation, better trade deals and more affordable energies.
How many farmers do we have here in Lancaster? Raise your hand. But a lot of people are employed by those farms, right? Those farmers are they rich people or the regulation is not so good. He goes not so good. Were gonna make it good for everybody. Let me pause briefly to discuss a very heartbreaking topic.
As most of you know, tomorrow is the tenth anniversary of the Nickel Mines School shooting. Tonight, when you say your prayers, I ask you to remember those five young beautiful girls and their families. Another issue were gonna deal with is, in certain ways so important, but when I tell you about what I just did.
That is a special group of people. So say prayers, please, OK? Just remember those people and what they went through. Remember those families. Remember those families. So were gonna deal with trade. Were gonna deal with the disastrous trade deals like NAFTA that have crushed industry in Pennsylvania. Were gonna renegotiate them.
Were going to make them great deals or were going to terminate them. Start all over. We will come out so far ahead. We lost so much money, so many jobs. Your state has lost more than one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA was enacted. A Bill Clinton signed deal, supported heavily by crooked Hillary Clinton.
Jobs are moving to Mexico, including 300 jobs that left in recent years from the Hershey plant. Youve lost one in four manufacturing jobs since China entered the World Trade Organization. Another deal pushed by Bill and supported by Hillary. Hillary Clinton is merely a vessel for those global special interests trying to strip our country of its wealth, its jobs, its status as a sovereign nation.
And we have been stripped. Folks, we dont make anything anymore. We dont make anything. Were gonna start making things. Were not gonna let countries like China devalue their currency and have trade deficits of $400 bil and $500 billion dollars a year. Were not gonna let it happen. Shes a globalist, who makes a living taking jobs from our country and giving them to foreign countries.
Now shes not gonna tell you that, but thats whats gonna happen. Im not running to be president of the world. Im running to be president of the United States of America and represent you. Have you ever wondered why it is that all things that the American people want never seem to happen. When was the last time we had a victory?
Think of it. A massive company coming into town. When was the last time? You dont have victories. We cant beat ISIS. And by the way, by the way, just so you know, our military is depleted. Were gonna build up our military. We are gonna knock the hell out of ISIS. Well knock that out. Its because the financial interests, who control our politics and our media dont want these changes to happen.
I am an agent of change. Were gonna make great change for our country. Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years. And you know, when I was up on the stage on Monday night, I was saying to myself. It was sort of strange. All these people, I figured like 100 million people, right? I had a bad mic. Im thinking about all this and all of a sudden, it comes to me. Its like a moment of clarity more than any other time.
She says, Im gonna do this. Im gonna do that. Im gonna -- shes been here for 30 years. Why hasnt she done it? Shes not gonna do anything. Shes never done anything meaningful. Never. Her only legacy is death, tremendous financial loss and failure. Her policies gave us the disasters in Iraq, in Libya and Syria.
Her policies unleashed ISIS. Now remember, the way she got out of Iraq left a tremendous vacuum from which ISIS was formed. No, I said that. And this character, Lester Holt, I mean take a look, you got to study that tape. He came at me every time. And I was right. With her, when she said things that were wrong, he didnt come after her.
And now she wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees to pour into our country. And she doesnt even say the words, radical Islamic terrorism. Nor does President Obama. Her policies gave us the disastrous deal with Iran. One of the worst deals, one of the dumbest deals Ive ever seen of any kind. At home, look at how she failed Upstate New York.
She promised, just like she is now, jobs, jobs. She doesnt know the first thing about jobs. Ive created thousands and thousands of jobs. Thats what I do. I create jobs. She promised 200,000 jobs. But instead, more people left. And she failed, a tremendous failure. Manufacturing jobs in Upstate New York are down nearly 40% from the time she was elected.
Hillary Clinton is there for only one reason: to protect those special interests and those donors and her own money. Our campaign is taking on big business, big media and big donors. We know how to do it. You know, how you do it? With massive rallies like this. They cant compete with us. They cant. My campaign is powered by my money, my money, and by small dollar donations from hardworking patriots like all of you.
Every dollar brings us closer to taking our country back. And weve raised tremendous amount of money. The day after the debate, $18 million came into our coffers. Think of it. $18 million. That was our all time record. I guess, they thought I did good on the debate but we got tremendous money came in. And were raising tremendous money in $61 numbers.
Because of all of you and all of our great volunteers across Pennsylvania, some of which are here tonight, standing right in the front row. Weve knocked on over 100,000 doors in the state of Pennsylvania. And believe me, those people like us knocking on their doors. Over 100,000 theyve knocked on. Raise your hands those people that are working with us. Raise.
Theyve been unbelievable. Thank you, man. Unbelievable. Were gonna have a big victory. You have 38 days until the election. 38 days to change the future of our country and the world. You have 38 days to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true. Do not let this opportunity slip away or be wasted.
You will never ever have this chance again. Not gonna happen again. In four years, youre not gonna be able to do it. You have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman and child in this nation. The arrogance of Washington D.C. will soon come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.
Watch. It happened in Europe, Brexit, and its gonna continue to happen. And I predicted Brexit. Remember? I predicted. Everybody said, what does Trump know? But I have a lot of things over there. And I said, you know what, theres a bad feeling going on here. And I predicted Brexit. And everybody said, hes crazy.
What does he know? Then after I turned out to be right. Nobody said I predicted it. On November 8th, were going to show the whole world that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever before. And just to finish up here is just a few of the great things that will happen for your country. You are going to see your taxes substantially lowered.
She wants to raise your taxes. Tremendous tax decrease. Were gonna eliminate every unnecessary regulation. She wants to increase regulations. We want to repeal and replace job killing Obamacare. We want to make child care more affordable. My daughter, Evanka, is so strong and shes gonna be here next week to speak.
Were gonna end Common Core. Were gonna provide school choice to every low-income child in America, African-American children, Hispanic children. Were gonna get great educations for people that will never get it under our system. Were gonna end illegal immigration. Were gonna have a strong border. And by the way, people are gonna come into our country but theyre gonna come into our country legally, legally.
Were gonna keep radical Islamic terrorists out of our country. Hillary wants to let them come pouring in. We cant do that, sorry. Were gonna save the Second Amendment, which is under siege. And another one that endorsed me is the National Rifle Association, the NRA. Wow. Theyll be happy to see that. Theyre gonna be happy to see that.
Theyre incredible people and they love the country. Wayne and Chris, these are incredible people that truly love the country. So by the way, if youre supporters of the Second Amendment, got to get out and vote. Sorry. Support the men and women of law enforcement. We have to. And were gonna appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals. American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar in the skies. And American ships that we make, that we make, will patrol the seas. Pennsylvanias steel will build this country like it built the Empire State building many years ago.
And Pennsylvanias steel and the incredible steel workers will send new skyscrapers into the clouds. American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy mined by our miners and other American sources, including right here in Pennsylvania, so important, will power our nation. American workers will be hired to do the job and we will start making things again and we will start winning again.
We will put new Pennsylvanias steel into the spine of this country. I will fight for every neglected part of our nation and I will fight to bring us all together as Americans. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.
On November 8th, a new bright dawn begins for our country. Pennsylvania, you have no idea the importance. Crooked Hillary is spending tens of millions of dollars on Wall Street money, running commercials about me that are false, although mostly false. Yeah, a little truth everyone sort of. So many commercials.
A friend of mine called up. He said, theres nothing else but those commercials. Theyre driving me crazy. And Donald, its not you. Thats true. Its not me. Its not me. But shes spending tens of millions of dollars. Its a disgrace. And much of those commercials I will tell you is false. So were going to do something that I think the country has never seen before.
