Donald Trump|Press Gaggle: Donald Trump Speaks to the Press Before Marine One Departure|August 9, 2019
So, were doing very well with China. Were talking to China. Were not ready to make a deal, but well see what happens. But, you know, weve been hurt by China for 25, 30 years. Nobody has done anything about it. And we have no choice but to do what were doing. Its working out very well, as you know.
We called them on manipulation and they brought their numbers back, and they brought them back rapidly. And they were able to do that because they manipulate. But thats -- so its called "monetary manipulation." Not good. But what happened and whats happening with China now -- we have an open dialogue.
Well see whether or not we keep our meeting in September. If we do, thats fine. If we dont, thats fine. But its time that somebody does what were doing. And I said, the American taxpayer is not paying for it. We had a big day in stock market yesterday, but the American taxpayer is not paying for it. What China is doing is, by depressing their currency and by pouring tremendous amounts of money into their system, theyre paying for it. The prices have not gone up. So when the Amer- -- in fact, in some cases, theyve gone down because the devaluation, plus the money supply -- the amount of money that they pour in, which is a form of manipulation -- has more than compensated for an increase in price.
So, as I said -- and everybody questioned it -- in the case of China, the tariffs have been amazing. Were taking in billions and billions of dollars. Now, China has had their worst year in 35 years now. It was in 26 years, but now its in 35 years. I want them to do well. But as of this moment, theyre having the worst year that theyve had in many, many years -- in decades.
And really, were just bringing the system back into order. We have all the cards. Were doing well. Our country is doing fantastically well. You look at Europe; theyve got problems. In fact, the biggest problem we have is the fact that a lot of other -- continents, frankly -- but a lot of other countries are not doing well.
But were doing great, and we continue to do great. Our companies are poised. They have a lot of cash. Our system is beautiful.
I think I could, but I dont think Ill be there. I have a great relationship with the NRA. They supported me very early, and thats been a great decision they made. We have Justice Kavanaugh. We have Justice Gorsuch. And they feel very strongly about the Second Amendment. The NRA has made a great decision in supporting me, and nobody else would have won, aside from everything else.
I have a very good relationship. Ill change it: I have a great relationship with the NRA. I have a lot of respect for the people at the NRA. And I have already spoken to them on numerous occasions. Numerous occasions. And, frankly, we need intelligent background checks, okay? This isnt a question of NRA, Republican, or Democrat.
I will tell you, I spoke to Mitch McConnell yesterday. Hes totally onboard. He said, "Ive been waiting for your call." He is totally onboard. I spoke to senators that, in some cases, people -- friends of mine -- but pretty hardline senators. Hardline. And when I say that, I say that in a positive way.
Hardline on the Second Amendment. And they understand. We dont want insane people, mentally ill people, bad people, dangerous people -- we dont want guns in the hands of the wrong people. I think that the Republicans are going to be great and lead the charge along with the Democrats. I spoke yesterday to Nancy Pelosi.
We had a great talk. I spoke to Chuck Schumer. We had a great talk. And Chuck Schumer, in particular, loves my China policy, as you probably know. I said, "I cant believe it. You actually like something that Im doing." He said, "Not like. Love." So Chuck Schumer is -- hes great on the China situation, which we are winning and winning big.
And China wants to do something, but Im not ready to do anything yet. Twenty-five years of abuse. Im not ready so fast. So well see how that works out. But on the background checks -- on background checks, we have tremendous support for really commonsense, sensible, important background checks.
Time goes by. I dont think Im different, but I think the Senate is different. I think other people in the House are different. I think that people that maybe had their arm up a couple of years ago, maybe they feel differently. I dont think I feel any differently. I think with a lot of success that we have, I think I have a greater influence now over the Senate and over the House.
I think we can get something really good done. I think we can have some really meaningful background checks. We dont want people that are mentally ill, people that are sick -- we dont want them having guns. Who does?
Well, well see where the NRA will be. But we have to have meaningful background checks. You know, in the case of -- in both cases, its possible they wouldnt have been caught. But in the one case, we also have to talk about age, because he did things that were very, very bad in Ohio, in Dayton. He did some things that were really bad.
His school knew about it. When he turned 18, everything was expunged. Were going to have to get rid of that because you cant have that barrier. If they would have had that barrier, they would have been able to see. But because he was a minor, it was expunged. Were going to have to get rid of that barrier.
I think this: I think a lot of really meaningful things on background checks will take place, including red flags, including a lot of other very, very important items. And the Republicans are looking at it very seriously. And I really believe that the NRA -- Ive spoken to them numerous times -- theyre really good people.
Theyre great patriots. They love our country. They love our country so much. And, frankly, I really think theyre going to get there also.
No. No. I had a good talk with Wayne. And I like Wayne. And, you know -- as you know, they supported me very early -- far earlier than anybody thought possible, especially me not being a politician. And that support has paid off. We now have two Supreme Court justices that are phenomenal -- Kavanaugh and Gorsuch.
And, I mean, theyre phenomenal people, and theyre big believers in the Second Amendment, which Wayne is also and which I am. I mean, theres been -- theres been no President that feels more strongly about the Second Amendment than I do. However, we need meaningful background checks so that sick people dont get guns.
I think, in the end -- I think, in the end, Wayne and the NRA will either be there or maybe will be a little bit more neutral, and that would be okay, too. Look -- look, the NRA has, over the years, taken a very, very tough stance on everything, and I understand it. You know, its a slippery slope. They think youll prove one thing, and that leads to a lot of bad things.
I dont agree with that. I think we can do meaningful -- very meaningful background checks. I want to see it happen. So Ive got a lot of support. And I also have the support of other people on the other side. And I think the Democrats and Republicans have a chance to really come together.
The reason is because you have to go in; you cant let anybody know. Otherwise, when you get there, nobody will be there. But a big factor is to let people outside of the country that want to come in legally -- illegally into our country, where they come in in caravans where they surge the border -- which, by the way, we have the numbers way down right now, if you see, because Mexico has done a fantastic job.
Mexico has 26,000 soldiers, right now, on the border. They have been fantastic -- because of tariffs. But I dont care what it is, because Mexico -- in fact, Ill be calling the President at a certain point. I just hope they keep it up. Because if the Democrats will change the laws -- which I was thinking about putting together, as you know, with the gun situation.
So we have immigration and we have, lets say, some of the things were talking about right now -- you have them together. But I want people to know that if they come into the United States illegally, theyre getting out; theyre going to be brought out. And this serves as a very good deterrent. If people come into our country illegally, theyre going out.
Theyre not coming in illegally and staying. We have bad laws. They may get in -- although were being very tough -- but they may get in, but it doesnt matter because theyre going out. And when people see what they saw yesterday, and like they will see for a long time, they know that theyre not staying here.
Oh, I think they really like -- you know, its really amazing because African American unemployment just came out very recently -- the lowest in history. Its the best -- the best numbers in history. African American employment -- and Hispanic and Asian, too -- have more people working today than ever worked in the history of our country.
Plus, I did criminal justice reform, which President Obama could not get approved -- which the media never talks about. If President Obama got criminal justice reform done, it would be front-page stories all over the place. I got it done. I think that African Americans appreciate it. So I got that. I have the best unemployment numbers.
I have the best employment numbers for a lot of people. But for African Americans: number one that weve ever had. One other thing we did, aside from criminal justice reform: Opportunity Zones. And they are doing unbelievably well. And youll see that, and youve already seen it. But Opportunity Zones.
And the biggest beneficiary there is African Americans.
I think so. Yeah. I do.
Who are you talking about?
Yeah.
I think hes going to make a deal with President Putin, and he will be invited to the White House. And we look forward to seeing him. Hes already been invited to the White House, and he wants to come. And I think he will. Hes a very reasonable guy. He wants to see peace in Ukraine. And I think he will be coming very soon, actually.
Yeah, he comments -- look. Look, Joe is not playing with a full deck. He made that comment. I said, "Whoa." I saw it because I was on -- something; I had a television. I saw his comment. Joe Biden is not playing with a full deck. This is not somebody you can have as your President. But if he got the nomination, Id be thrilled.
Were looking at that right now. We have a lot of these companies coming in a little while, as you know.
Were going to be very tough with them. Theyre treating conservatives very unfairly. Hollywood -- I dont call them the "elites"; I think the elites are people they go after, in many cases. But Hollywood is really terrible. You talk about racist -- Hollywood is racist. What theyre doing, with the kind of movies theyre putting out -- its actually very dangerous for our country.
What Hollywood is doing is a tremendous disturbance to our country. We have now, in a little while, all of the heads of the biggest companies coming in, and were going to talk to them. They treat conservatives and Republicans totally different than they treat others. And they cant do that.
No. We dont have to. We have such a strong dollar. The problem is, our dollar is at a level that it makes it hard. But the advantage to doing what we have is money is pouring in because we have the safest currency in the world. We have the standard of the world. But because its so strong -- its gotten so strong because other countries have problems -- it makes it harder for our manufacturers.
So if we lowered the interest rate by the Federal Reserve, that would automatically bring down the dollar a little bit, and it would make it easier for Caterpillar and these companies. But we have the greatest currency in the world. No, I wouldnt do that.
So, China wants to settle this deal. Theyve had the worst year that theyve had in many, many decades. And its getting only worse. Thousands of companies are leaving China. They would like to make a deal. Im not ready to make a deal.
Maybe. Well see what happens. Right now -- right now the talks are scheduled in September. Whether or not were talking about China, whether or not theyre cancelled, well see. Look, as I said, our people are not paying for these billions and billions of dollars that came in, $16 billion of which I gave to the farmers because they were targeted by China.
And thats just a small fraction of what weve taken in. So they are not -- because what China has been doing -- theyre a currency manipulator -- theyve manipulated the value of their currency, and thats where the money comes. And also, they put tremendous money into the system. So if you look, prices have not risen.
Our people have not paid. So all of these guys that say, "Oh, Trump, Trump, Trump…" -- they dont know what theyre talking about. Now, China is unique. That doesnt mean it happens with other countries. It probably doesnt. But the prices have not gone up. In fact, we have virtually no inflation in our country.
If the Federal Reserve would bring down interest rates over a period of time --
I would love to see a point or even a little bit more than that. If they would stop quantitative tightening, we have a rocket ship. I mean, were doing well without it, but were being handcuffed by the Federal Reserve. If they would stop that, it would be incredible.
Well, I hope that South Korea and I hope that Japan start getting along with each other. You know, theyre supposed to be allies. And it puts us in a very difficult position. South Korea and Japan are fighting all the time. Theyve got to get along because it puts us in a very bad position. With that being said, I got a very beautiful letter from Kim Jong Un yesterday.
It was delivered -- hand-delivered from --
It was a very positive letter.
Id love to give it to you. I really would. Maybe -- maybe sometime I will.
I think well have another meeting. He really wrote a beautiful, three-page -- I mean, right from top to bottom -- a really beautiful letter. And maybe Ill release the results of the letter, but it was a very positive letter.
Were not going to do business with Huawei. Were not doing business with them. And I really made the decision. Its much simpler not to do any business with Huawei. So were not doing business with Huawei. That doesnt mean we wont agree to something if and when we make a trade deal, but were not going to be doing business with Huawei.
Maguire is excellent. Admiral. Highly respected. A great leader. Hes Acting right now. Sue did a great job. I like Sue Gordon very much. I think that, over a period of time -- Im in no rush because we have a great Acting.
I like Hoekstra a lot. I spoke to Senator Burr about different people. Hes head of intelligence. And were -- Im working together with Senator Burr and the whole committee. I want to get somebody that everybody can really come together with. I like Pete Hoekstra a lot. Hes great. Hes doing a fantastic job in the Netherlands right now.
No, I will tell you: Thats a job that everybody wants. DNI. Everybody. But Im dealing -- Im dealing with the committee. Im dealing with, really, Senator Burr a lot. And well come up with somebody thats great. We have a lot of choice. A lot of people want the job.
Yeah, Im concerned that theyre not getting along with each other. They have to get along with each other. If they dont get along, what are we doing? They have to get along with each other. Its very important. South Korea and Japan have to sit down and get along with each other. Otherwise, what are we all doing?
So, Poland has been a great, great friend of ours. Theyve offered to build a military base at the cost of many billions of dollars. No money put up by the United States whatsoever. Theyve offered to fund our troops and lots of other things -- the way it should be. Not the stupid deals that we made with all these other countries that take advantage of us. So, Poland has been terrific.
And were going to be going to Poland very soon. Im sure youre going to be going with us. I had a great experience in Poland the last time I went. In fact, some of you actually said the speech was one of the best ever made in Europe by an American President. Hard to believe that you actually said that.
When you said that, I was, like, in a state of shock.
No. Stephen Ross is a great friend of mine. Hes a very successful guy. We were competitors but friends in real estate, in New York, in the old days. Hes a great guy. He is -- by the way, I think hes probably more inclined to be a liberal, if you want to know the truth. But he likes me, he respects me. Were doing a fundraiser there.
Were doing another fundraiser with another friend of mine. And I understand the fundraiser was totally sold out, and its very successful.
I dont think -- I think it makes Steve much hotter. I explained -- I didnt speak to him yet; Ill see him in a little while. The controversy makes Steve Ross hotter. Hell figure that out in about a week. But hes very happy. Hes got a very successful -- a lot of people are going. We have two fundraisers.
One is Steve; one is another gentleman. And I guess theyre going to raise 11 or 12 billion -- million dollars. Not billion. Million. Im getting used to saying "billion." Were talking about a lot of money.
Were not talking about anything specific. I can tell you theres tremendous goodwill for meaningful -- Im talking about "meaningful"; add that word -- meaningful background checks so that sick and demented people dont carry around guns. You have to remember -- and Ive said it -- its a big mental illness problem.
And the gun doesnt pull a trigger. A mind -- a sick mind pulls a trigger. So we want to take that out of the equation.
Were looking at Toomey-Manchin. Actually, if you look, there are many bills that have been put in over a period of four, five years. They went nowhere. But theres never been a President like President Trump.
I dont think well need to. I may. Leadership is dealing along with me right now. By the time you call them back, theyre going to be back anyway. I dont think well need to call them back. I think well have a very good package by the time they come back and they can start debating and voting on it then.
So I really dont think, for the extra little time, it matters. Leadership is doing a really good job -- Mitch McConnell, Kevin, Nancy. I spoke with Nancy Pelosi yesterday. I spoke with Chuck Schumer yesterday. Theres a lot of goodwill about this issue.
I dont think so. No. No.
I think we have a lot of support. I mean, Im very fortunate. In the Republican Party, Im at 94 percent approval rating, so that helps. But I have a great relationship with the Republican senators. And I really think theyre looking for me to make -- give them a signal. And were going to have great support, and I think well have the support from the Democrats also.
No, no. I never said what Im saying now.
What Im saying -- what I said, though: You have tremendous opposition from many people on both sides. I see a better feeling right now towards getting something meaningful done. Meaningful. And we did do things after Parkland, but it wasnt to the same level that Im talking about now. You know, we did do the Fix NICS and various other things.
So we did do a lot of work after Parkland. But I think we have now a chance to do something, really, much more meaningful --
-- having to do -- having to do, as you know, with background checks.
Well, my message to young children going back to school is: Go and really study hard, and someday youll grow up and maybe be President of the United States or do something else thats fantastic. They have nothing to fear. They have nothing to worry about. In addition, were in constant contact with states, with state governments.
And they are really doing a great job. We have this so much better than it was two and a half years ago. Two and a half years ago, when I came in, it was really not a good situation. I think we have a very, very good system right now. That doesnt mean that theres not going to be some crazy person, but thats what we want to do. We want to take the guns out of the hands of crazy, demented, sick people.
Yeah, were not looking at that right now. Were really looking at very meaningful background checks. I think its going to happen. Theres great, great support. But were looking at very, very meaningful background checks.
Well, Admiral -- as you know, Maguire -- Admiral Maguire is a very talented man. Hes a great leader. As an Admiral, was always a great leader. He is a man who is respected by everybody, and hes going to be there for a period of time. Who knows? Maybe he gets the job. But hell be there for a period of time -- maybe a longer period of time than we think.
Well see. Were dealing with Senator Burr. Were dealing with the committee. Were dealing with probably 9 or 10 people that want the job very much. You know the name of almost every one of them. Theyre truly outstanding. Everybody wants DNI. Everybody wants it. And I will say that the Admiral is such a great choice from the standpoint of now.
And maybe he goes further. Well see what happens. But were dealing with the committee and Senator Burr. We have people, all of whom you know -- highly respected people. Well be making a decision in the not-too-distant future.
So, Eugene Scalia is a highly respected lawyer in Washington. His father, as you know, was the great, great, great Supreme Court Justice. Even the people with not his views would say he was a great gentleman, a great man. Eugene Scalia -- Gene Scalia -- has had a fantastic career. As you know, hes our appointment for Labor Secretary.
I think -- so far, its been received very well. He is a very -- hes one of the finest minds and lawyers in Washington. And I will say, so far, thats been received very well.
Yeah, he gave me a great letter. I would love to give you, but, I dont know, I dont think it would be appropriate. But it was a very personal letter.
It was a great letter. He talked about what hes doing. Hes not happy with the testing. Its a very small testing that we did. But he wasnt happy with the testing; he put that in the letter. But he also sees a great future for North Korea. And so well see how it all works out. In the meantime, I say it again: There have been no nuclear tests.
The missile tests have all been short-range. No ballistic missile tests. No long-range missiles. We got back, and were getting back -- as we speak, were getting back a lot of our fallen heroes. You know that. Theyre coming back into and through Hawaii. And we got back our hostages. So I thought the letter -- I just got it yesterday.
It was hand-delivered and it wasnt touched by anybody. They literally take it from North Korea to my office. We have a system. Its the old-fashioned system. You dont have to worry about leaks. Something nice about that system.
No, he wasnt. He wasnt happy with the tests -- the war games. The war games on the other side, with the United States. And as you know, Ive never liked it either. Ive never liked it. Ive never been a fan. You know why? I dont like paying for it. We should be reimbursed for it, and Ive told that to South Korea.
But I dont like it either. But I said, "Do this," because this was a big test. This was a turnover of various areas to South Korea. I like that because thats what should happen.
Well, I cant imagine that. But if they did that, wed just reciprocate. We are a very reciprocal nation, with me as the head. When somebody does something negative to us in terms of a country, we do it to them. Look, our country has been taken advantage of by foreign countries, even allies -- including allies, and in many cases, more than anybody else.
Weve been taken advantage of for many, many years, and it stops. It stopped.
Only if hes good enough. Yeah, if hes good enough. Why would he play? If hes good enough. And I think if he was good enough -- I know the owners. I know Bob Kraft. I know so many of the owners. If hes good enough, theyd sign him. So, if hes good enough -- I know these people -- they would sign him in a heartbeat.
They will do anything they can to win games. So Id like to see it. Frankly, Id love to see Kaepernick come in if hes good enough. But I dont want to see him come in because somebody thinks its a good PR move. If hes good enough, he will be in.
Well, the global markets are not as good as our market. Our market has been really good.
Well, it always -- its never positive. Although, you could say it puts us in an even better position. I view it differently. I mean, most people would say thats a bad thing. I would say the fact that other countries arent doing really well -- China, in particular. China is doing horribly. Horribly.
First time that anyone can remember. They are having a year like they never had. Almost -- you know, go back, 30, 40 years. Theyre having one of the worst years ever. The numbers are phony. Theyre not doing 6.2; theyre doing a totally different number.
Maybe neutral. Maybe even --
I dont think it helps. First of all, I dont like it when they do it because I am not any of those things. I think its a disgrace. And I think it shows how desperate the Democrats are. Look, right now, Im working with the Democrats on meaningful background checks. Thats a big thing. Hopefully, we can do something.
But -- so I dont want to focus too much on that. I will say this: For them to throw out the race word again -- "racist, racist, racist." Thats all they use -- to anybody. They called Nancy Pelosi a racist. Shes not a racist. They call anybody a "racist" when they run out of cards. Im winning in the polls.
Theyre desperate. Theyve got lousy candidates. Theyve got bad candidates. I mean, I watched the debates. I mean, I look --
I look -- well, I mean, Joe Biden cant answer a simple question. Something is going wrong with him. I mean, the only -- the only thing is -- I mean, a lot of people think that he was the one that wanted Bob Mueller to testify because it made Joe look intelligent. Okay?
I think my base relies very much on common sense and they rely on me, in terms of telling them whats happening. I think meaningful background checks -- I dont just say "background checks." Because we passed background checks a number of times, meaning the Democr- -- but everybody knew they werent that strong.
