Donald Trump|Interview: Donald Trump Interviewed by Margaret Brennan on CBSs Face the Nation|February 3, 2019
Well, were going to have to see what happens on February 15th and I -- I think --
Well, I dont -- I dont take anything off the table. I dont like to take things off the table. Its that alternative. Its national emergency, its other things and you know there have been plenty national emergencies called. And this really is an invasion of our country by human traffickers. These are people that are horrible people bringing in women mostly, but bringing in women and children into our country.
Human trafficking. And were going to have a strong border. And the only way you have a strong border is you need a physical barrier. You need a wall. And anybody that says you dont, theyre just playing games.
Well, I think that she was very rigid -- which I would expect -- but I think she is very bad for our country. She knows that you need a barrier. She knows that we need border security. She wanted to win a political point. I happen to think its very bad politics because basically she wants open borders. She doesnt mind human trafficking or she wouldnt do this because you know --
Excuse me?
Shes -- shes costing the country hundreds of billions of dollars because whats happening is when you have a porous border, and when you have drugs pouring in, and when you have people dying all over the country because of people like Nancy Pelosi who dont want to give proper border security for political reasons, shes doing a terrible disservice to our country.
And on the 15th we have now set the table beautifully because everybody knows whats going on because of the shutdown. People that didnt have any idea -- they didnt have a clue as to what was happening, they now know exactly whats happening. They see human trafficking. They see drugs and gangs and criminals pouring in. Now, we catch them because were doing a great job.
But if we had proper border security we wouldnt have to work so hard and we could do an even better job, and I think Nancy Pelosi is doing a terrible disservice to the people of our country. But she can --
No, she can keep playing her games, but we will win. Because we have a much better issue. On a political basis, what shes doing is -- I actually think its bad politics, but much more importantly its very bad for our country.
I did.
Well, I think --
I think -- let me just say it wasnt so much a report. It was the questions and answers as the report was submitted and they were asked questions and answers. Weve done an incredible job with Syria. When I took over Syria it was infested with ISIS. It was all over the place. And now you have very little ISIS and you have the caliphate almost knocked out.
We will be announcing in the not too distant future 100 percent of the caliphate which is the area -- the land -- the area -- 100. Were at 99 percent right now, well be at 100. When I took it over it was a disaster. I think weve done a great job with that. At the same time, at a certain point, we want to bring our people back home.
If you look at Afghanistan were going in very soon well be going into our 19th year spending 50 billion dollars a year. Now if you go back and look at any of my campaign speeches or rallies, I talked about it all the time.
-- I want to bring people home.
By the way --
Youre going to always have pockets of something. What -- youre going to have people, like the one armed man who blew up a restaurant. Youre going to have pockets. But youre not going to keep armies there because you have a few people. Or you even have fairly reasonable numbers of people. Weve been there for many, many years.
We were supposed to be in Syria for four months. Weve been there for years. We have been in Afghanistan for 19 years. And by the way, Ive been hitting very hard in Afghanistan and now were negotiating with the Taliban. Well see what happens, who knows --
Look, whether we should have been there in the first place, thats first question. Second question --
-- weve been there for 19 years, almost, we are fighting very well. Were fighting harder than ever before. And I think that they will -- I think theyre tired and, I think everybodys tired. We got to get out of these endless wars and bring our folks back home. Now, that doesnt mean were not going to be watching with intelligence.
Were going to be watching, and watching closely. North Korea --
Well, everythings harder. But, you know you pay a big price for troops on the ground. Were spending hundreds of billions of dollars on military. Were the policemen of the world and we dont --
Sure.
And you know what well do? Well come back if we have to. We have very fast airplanes, we have very good cargo planes. We can come back very quickly, and Im not leaving. We have a base in Iraq and the base is a fantastic edifice. I mean I was there recently, and I couldnt believe the money that was spent on these massive runways.
And these -- Ive rarely seen anything like it. And its there. And well be there. And frankly, were hitting the caliphate from Iraq and as we slowly withdraw from Syria. Now the other thing --
2,000 troops.
Theyre starting to, as we gain the remainder, the final remainder of the caliphate of the area, theyll be going to our base in Iraq, and ultimately some will be coming home. But were going to be there and were going to be staying --
We have to protect Israel. We have to protect other things that we have. But were -- yeah, theyll be coming back in a matter of time. Look, were protecting the world. Were spending more money than anybodys ever spent in history, by a lot. We spent, over the last five years, close to 50 billion dollars a year in Afghanistan.
Thats more than most countries spend for everything including education, medical, and everything else, other than a few countries.
Yes. And Ill leave intelligence there. Real intelligence, by the way. Ill leave intelligence there and if I see nests forming, Ill do something about it. But for us to be spending 51 billion dollars, like last year, or if you average the cost its -- I mean youre talking about numbers that nobodys ever heard of before.
I ran against 17 Republicans. This was a big part of what I was saying, and I won very easily. I think the people out in the world -- I think people in our country agree. Weve been fighting for 19 years. Somebody said you were precipitously bringing to -- precipitously? Weve been there for 19 years. I want to fight.
I want to win, and we want to bring our great troops back home. Ive seen the people. I go to Walter Reed Hospital. I see what happens to people. I see with no legs and no arm -- arms. And Ive seen also what happens to them up here because theyre in this situation, and they come back and they are totally different people -- where the wives and the fathers and the mothers say, "What has happened to my son?
What has happened in some cases to my daughter?" Its a terrible thing. Weve been there close to 19 years. And its time. And well see what happens with the Taliban. They want peace. Theyre tired. Everybodys tired. Wed like to have -- I dont like endless wars. This war. What were doing is got to stop at some point.
Im not telegraphing anything. No, no, no. Theres a difference. When President Obama pulled out of Iraq in theory we had Iraq. In other words, we had Iraq. We never had Syria because President Obama never wanted to violate the red line in the sand. So we never had Syria. I was the one that actually violated the red line when I hit Syria with 59 Tomahawk missiles, if you remember.
But President Obama chose not to do that. When he chose not to do that, he showed tremendous weakness. But we didnt have Syria whereas we had Iraq. So when he did what he did in Iraq, which was a mistake. Being in Iraq was a mistake. Okay. Being in Iraq -- it was a big mistake to go -- one of the greatest mistakes going into the Middle East that our country has ever made.
One of the greatest mistakes that weve ever made --
-- but when it was chosen -- well, we spent a fortune on building this incredible base. We might as well keep it. And one of the reasons I want to keep it is because I want to be looking a little bit at Iran because Iran is a real problem.
No, because I want to be able to watch Iran. All I want to do is be able to watch. We have an unbelievable and expensive military base built in Iraq. Its perfectly situated for looking at all over different parts of the troubled Middle East rather than pulling up. And this is what a lot of people dont understand.
Were going to keep watching and were going to keep seeing and if theres trouble, if somebody is looking to do nuclear weapons or other things, were going to know it before they do.
I am going to trust the intelligence that Im putting there, but I will say this: my intelligence people, if they said in fact that Iran is a wonderful kindergarten, I disagree with them 100 percent. It is a vicious country that kills many people. When you talk about torture and so many other things. And -- maybe theyll come back.
The country is getting absolutely -- when I ended the horrible Iran nuclear deal -- it was a horrible deal done by President Obama and John Kerry that didnt know what the hell he was doing. When I ended that deal, Margaret, all of a sudden Iran became a different country. They became -- very rapidly -- right now theyre a country thats in big financial trouble.
Lets see what happens.
I disagree with them. Im -- Im -- by the way --
-- I have intel people, but that doesnt mean I have to agree. President Bush had intel people that said Saddam Hussein --
-- in Iraq had nuclear weapons -- had all sorts of weapons of mass destruction. Guess what? Those intel people didnt know what the hell they were doing, and they got us tied up in a war that we should have never been in. And weve spent seven trillion dollars in the Middle East and we have lost lives --
I do, and I respect John and John is not one of the people that happened to be testifying or on.
And you know what I tell people -- you can testify any way you want. Im not going to stop them from testifying. They said they were mischaracterized -- maybe they were maybe they werent, I dont really know -- but I can tell you this, I want them to have their own opinion and I want them to give me their opinion.
But, when I look at Iran, I look at Iran as a nation that has caused tremendous problems.
When I came in as president of the United States, my first year, I went to the Pentagon two weeks after I came in, a short time after, and I was given a -- because I wanted to know whats going on with Iran.
We were in many many locations in the Middle East in huge difficulty. Every single one of them was caused by the number one terrorist nation in the world which is Iran. So when my intelligence people tell me how wonderful Iran is -- if you dont mind, Im going to just go by my own counsel.
So we have a great cabinet. I have great people. I think now we have a really great cabinet. I think Bill Barr will be a fantastic attorney general, and I think that we have -- Mike Pompeos been doing a fantastic job. We have --
No, I dont -- I mean he tells me he wouldnt want to leave. I think that was --
That was fake news.
Well, he may have spoken to him, but I think he loves being secretary of state. Hes doing a fantastic job. And I asked him the question the other day, he says hes absolutely not leaving. I dont think hed do that. And he doesnt want to be lame duck. And hes doing a fantastic job as our secretary of state.
Great energy and great -- a great, smart gentleman.
Yes.
Some, and some not.
Some are doing a fantastic job. Really -- I like acting because I can move so quickly. It gives me more flexibility. But -- but actually, some of the names you mentioned, theyre doing a fantastic job.
When its not happening. When --
When it doesnt get done. Like with General Mattis, I wasnt happy with his service. I told him give me a letter.
He resigned because I asked him to resign. He resigned because I was very nice to him. But I gave him big budgets and he didnt do well in Afghanistan. I was not happy with the job he was doing in Afghanistan. And if you look at Syria whats happened, I went to Iraq recently, if you look at Syria, whats happened in Syria in the last few weeks, you would see that things are going down that were not going down.
That things are happening that are very good. So I was not happy with him, but I wish him well.
I think so. I mean I -- I was just one that felt very important, you cant be kneeling for the national anthem. You have to respect our flag and our country. I want that as president and Id want that as a citizen. And I have a very good relationship. I did them a big favor in negotiating the USMCA, which is basically the replacement to NAFTA, which is one of the worst trade deals ever made.
And I said to Canada, look we have a great American company known as the NFL, and they were being hurt and treated unfairly, the NFL, by Canada for a long time. And I said to Prime Minister Trudeau, who was very nice about it and really understood it, I hope you can settle the difference immediately and fast.
And they did. So I did the NFL a big favor, as a great American company and they appreciated it. And Roger Goodell, this is a dispute that has gone on for years. Roger Goodell called me and he thanked me. And I appreciated that. But they havent been kneeling and they have been respecting the flag and their ratings have been terrific ever since.
And a lot of good things happened.
Well, you know, Im the one that had passed judicial reform. And if you look at what I did, criminal judicial reform, and what Ive done -- President Obama tried. They all tried. Everybody wanted to do it. And I got it done and Ive been, you know, really -- a lot of people in the NFL have been calling and thanking me for it.
They have been calling and thanking, you know, that people have been trying to get that taken care of and its now signed into law and affects tremendous numbers of people, and very good people. I think that when you want to protest I think thats great. But I dont think you do it at the sake of our flag, at the sake of our national anthem.
Absolutely.
Well I do --
A lot of it is having to do with reform from what I understand. Whether its criminal justice or whatever it may be and they have different versions and everybody seemed to have a different version of it. But a lot of it had to do with that, and I took care of that. I think that people have to, at all times, respect our flag and at all times respect our net -- our -- our national anthem and our country.
And I think there are plenty of places and times you can protest and you can do a lot. But you cant do that. Thats my opinion.
Well --
What has happened is very interesting. The economy is so good right now. You saw the jobs report just came out. Three hundred and four thousand added jobs, which is a shocker, for the month. A shocker to a lot of people. They thought it was going to be half that number. The African-Americans have the best employment numbers in the history of our country.
Hispanic Americans have the best employment numbers in the history of our country. Asian-Americans the best in the history of our country. You look at women, the best in 61 years. And our employment numbers are phenomenal, the best in over 50 years. So I think Ive been given a lot of credit for that. And in terms of race, a lot of people are saying well this is something very special whats happening.
I have a great relationship with Tim and certainly with his state, South Carolina, and -- where we do very well. And I think if you look at the numbers for African-American unemployment, best numbers theyve had -- literally the best numbers theyve had in history. And I think they like me a lot and I like them a lot.
Its very, its very tough question. Its a very good question. If he wanted to? Yes. Would I steer him that way? No, I wouldnt.
I wouldnt. And he actually plays a lot of soccer. Hes liking soccer. And a lot of people, including me, thought soccer would probably never make it in this country, but it really is moving forward rapidly. I -- I just dont like the reports that I see coming out having to do with football—I mean, its a dangerous sport and I think its -- I -- its -- really tough, I thought the equipment would get better, and it has.
The helmets have gotten far better but it hasnt solved the problem. So, you know I -- I hate to say it because I love to watch football. I think the NFL is a great product, but I really think that as far as my son -- well Ive heard NFL players saying they wouldnt let their sons play football. So. Its not totally unique, but I -- I would have a hard time with it.
Well, look the Russia thing is a hoax. I have been tougher on Russia than any president, maybe ever. But than any president.
Excuse me. Ok, you ready? Ok, you ready? Of the 34 people, many of them were bloggers from Moscow or they were people that had nothing to do with me, had nothing to do with what theyre talking about or there were people that got caught telling a fib or telling a lie. I think its a terrible thing thats happened to this country because this investigation is a witch hunt.
Its a terrible witch hunt and its a disgrace --
-- when you look at General Flynn where the FBI said he wasnt lying, but Robert Mueller said he was, and they took a man and destroyed his life. When you look at so many of the things that have happened -- why didnt they go after Hillary Clinton for her emails? She had thirty three thousand emails that were deleted after receiving a subpoena from Congress --
Excuse me, but Margaret, why --
First of all, Roger Stone didnt work on the campaign, except way way at the beginning long before were talking about. Roger is somebody that Ive always liked, but a lot of people like Roger some people probably dont like Roger, but Roger Stones somebody Ive always liked. I mean Rogers a character but Roger was not -- I dont know if you know this or not -- Roger wasnt on my campaign except way at the beginning --
So, its all -- and -- and yet you will ask me a question like that, wasnt involved in my campaign.
I have not thought about it. It looks like hes defending himself very well. But you have to get rid of the Russia witch hunt because it is indeed. And remember --
Remember this. Remember this. Theres been no president that has been tougher on Russia than Donald Trump.
Totally up to to the Attorney General.
Even the Mueller report said it had nothing to do with the campaign. When you look at some of the people and the events it had nothing to do --
Excuse me.
Excuse me. Thats up to the attorney general. I dont know. It depends. I have no idea what its going to say.
So far this things been a total witch hunt. And it doesnt implicate me in any way. There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing. Doesnt implicate me in any way but I think its a disgrace.
Well I dont want to say that. But certainly its something thats on the -- its an option.
Well he is requested a meeting and Ive turned it down because were very far along in the process. You have a young and energetic gentleman but you have other people within that same group that have been very very -- if you talk about democracy -- its really democracy in action.
Were going to see what happened. A number of months ago he wanted to meet.
Well now wed have to see.
I would say this. I decided at the time, "no" because so many really horrible things have been happening in Venezuela when you look at that country. That was the wealthiest country of all in that part of the world which is a very important part of the world. And now you look at the poverty and you look at the anguish and you look at the crime and you look at all of the things happening.
So, I think the process is playing out -- very very big tremendous protests.
I wont tell you yet, but youll be finding out probably State of the Union or shortly before. But the meeting is set. Hes looking forward to it. Im looking forward to it. Weve made tremendous progress. If you remember, before I became president, it looked like we were going to war with North Korea. Now we have a very good relationship.
The hostages are back. Okay, the remains are starting to come back. The remains of our Korean War veterans --
Well thats what --
Thats what the intelligence chief thinks, and I think --
-- theres a good possibility of that too. But theres also a very good chance that we will make a deal. I think hes also tired of going through what hes going through. He has a chance to have North Korea be a tremendous economic behemoth. It has a chance to be one of the great economic countries in the world.
He cant do that with nuclear weapons and he cant do that on the path theyre on now. I like him. I get along with him great. We have a fantastic chemistry. We have had tremendous correspondence that some people have seen and cant even believe it. They think its historic. And well see what happens. Now that doesnt mean were going to make a deal.
But certainly I think we have a very good chance of making a deal. And one of the reasons is because North Korea has a chance being located between Russia, China, and South Korea. What a location -- Im in the real estate business -- what a location. They have a chance to be an economic powerhouse.
Yeah, I mean we havent talked about anything else. Maybe someday. I mean who knows. But you know its very expensive to keep troops there. You do know that. We have 40,000 troops in South Korea, its very expensive. But I have no plans, Ive never even discussed removing them.
Well, yes but I think were in a different position now.
Weve put very massive tariffs on China. China is paying a big price and its hurt Chinas economy very badly. I want them to make a fair deal.They have been very helpful, especially at the beginning when I first came in with North Korea. They have stopped goods from going in. They have stopped a lot of things from going in through the border.
Because as you know they have a border just like we have a border with Mexico, where crime is way up by the way, way up, and you have to remember that. But we have a border with -- they have a border with North Korea.
They have been very vigilant. Are they the same now? Probably a little bit less so. But North Korea is absolutely talking. And I think North Korea wants to make a deal. We are making a deal. It looks like were doing very well with making a deal with China. I can tell you this, no two leaders of this country and China have ever been closer than I am with President Xi. We have a good chance to make a deal.
I dont know that were going to make one, but we have a good chance. And if it is a deal its going to be a real deal. Its not going to be a stopgap.
Thank you very much, Margaret.
