Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Montoursville, Pennsylvania|May 20, 2019
Wow. Thank you very much. Hello, Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania. Well, Im thrilled to be back in this state that gave us American independence, you know that. American steel, which we now have coming back, by the way, like never before and generations of American patriots. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. This is an incredible time for our country.
The unemployment rate in Pennsylvania has just reached an all-time historic low. Thats a pretty good stat. How do you beat that? Somebody is going to come and run and theyre going to say theyre going to do good in the history of this country. You just hit an all-time low. Thats pretty tough to beat.
Weve ended the last administrations eight-year war on Pennsylvania energy, and were unleashing clean coal and shale, and America is now their No. 1producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. Man, theres a lot of people. I think next time we would just have to get a bigger hanger. Thats a big hanger, were gonna get a bigger hanger. Thank you.
Thank you very much. You know I thought that was the sun in my eyes, Its these stupid lights. These people, I mean what are we -- what are they doing? Is there any way they can turn those lights down, folks? Crazy. Youve got a thing called the sun. We like the sun better than the artificial nonsense. Wages are going way up, crime is going way down, and our military is more powerful right now than ever before.
And when we took over two and a half years ago, our military was in big trouble, it was depleted, you know that. It was depleted, the equipment was old, the planes were all -- we have the most beautiful fighter jets in the world being delivered now, every day. Every day. Our spirit is strong, our stride is back and our stand is clear.
We are finally putting, like I said, America first.
And after years of building up foreign countries, we are now building up our country. Its about time. Weve got the hottest economy anywhere in the world. The United States added 263,000 jobs just last month, far exceeding any expectations. And since the election, weve created nearly 6 million new jobs.
Now, if I would have ever said that to the fake news media, look at how many back there, wow, thats a lot of people. Thats a lot of people. Looks like the Academy Awards used to look before they decided to go political against us. Now the Academy Awards is , but that includes a half a million brand new manufacturing jobs, which the previous administration said will never happen, will never happen, and it wouldnt have happened if you had them or the like.
Right here in Pennsylvania, weve added 155,000 new jobs, including 20,000 new construction jobs, nobody thought that was possible.
And more than 5 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Were getting Americans off welfare and back into the workforce, and its happening by the thousands and thousands, and thousands. One million people have been lifted out of poverty and the poverty rate for African Americans has reached the lowest level ever recorded.
The Hispanic-American, African-American, and Asian-American unemployment rates have also reached an all-time historic low.
Those debates should be very easy when we meet whoever were going to meet, because, statistically I mean -- maybe I dont know, who knows, politics is a crazy world, but when you have the best employment numbers in history, when you have the best unemployment numbers in history, when you have the best economy, probably that weve ever had, I dont know how to help you lose this election, right?
And actually, thats just the beginning.
Joining us tonight are many terrific Pennsylvania Republican leaders. At the forefront of Americas economic revival, including members of Congress, G.T. Thompson, Scott Perry, and Dan Meuser. You know them. You know them. Big -- by the way, theyve really been great in Congress and theyve helped me, theyre warriors.
Also, we have a couple of very popular guys that are with us and theyve been incredible friends of mine, Tom Marino and Lou Barletta. Where are they? Oh hello, fellas. Great people. Thank you.
And also, Pennsylvania GOP Chair Val DiGiorgio. Thank you, Val. As you know, tomorrow there is a crucial election,thats why Im here. Im here to see you but Ill be seeing a lot of you over the next year. Ill be here a lot. Got to win this state, got to win this state. We did great last time. Remember the polls, the fake polls that they put out, suppression.
They call them suppression polls.
Pennsylvania will go to Hillary Clinton, unfortunately for them, didnt work out that. So -- but do you remember that night? They wouldnt announce Pennsylvania. There was 1% left. If I lost every single vote, I would win, they wouldnt do it. It got later and later and then they announced Michigan, we won, Wisconsin, we won, and then they finally announced,we won the great state of Pennsylvania for a long time.
They had a hard time with that one, but we have a big race tomorrow. You got to go, raise your right hand, you all promise Im going to go out and vote? And you know, youre voting for so we have a great gentleman very successful businessman. The 12th Congressional District, the Democrat running for the seat is a radical socialist.
The Democrat candidate wants to open your borders and were fighting like hell with the worst laws to get those borders closed. The wall is being built as we speak, well have almost 500 miles of wall by the end of next year. Its terrible, terrible. Look at that. Can you get him up here? Get him up here, come on. Look at this guy.
Now we know who hes voting for.
Thank you very much. He said, "Im from San Diego.", you believe that? He said, "Im from San Diego and we need that wall." And you know in San Diego, as you know, its going up and now its up and heres what they did in California, they wanted the wall so badly, and so I did it, and I said you know, maybe I shouldnt do it politically.
Let them ask, I did it, and now its beautiful people not coming in, its beautiful, right? In San Diego, and now they go out and say we didnt want the wall in the first place. They didnt. They wanted the wall desperately because they were being flooded with illegal immigrants. Is that right? Flooded.
Now they dont have that, but now they find that its a terrible situation were in, but thats OK, because we always win. Somehow we always find a way to win. Now, it would be awfully good if we sat down for 15 minutes, we could stop up that border so perfectly. The laws and the judges are so against us, its actually incredible, but were going to win and were winning now, but its -- it shouldnt be hard, it should be really easy.
We raise, you know that. You know the word raise taxes? Does anybody like it? They want to raise your taxes. They go out and say, "We as Democrats want to raise your taxes." They want to shut down your American energy. They think these are good things. They want to destroy your second amendment, no more second amendment.
The Republican candidate, somebody who is absolutely a winner, somebody that I dont want to take a chance.
You know, normally, I could do other things tonight. I like you, I love this state. I figured, "Hey, its a Monday, we have an election tomorrow, who the hell wants to sit around doing nothing on Monday night, right? And by the way, the first lady sends her regards, she loves this state, doing a great job.
She campaigned here on our last day just before the election.
But we have a man whos, a special man hes a successful business man and owner. He believes in protecting the border, defending our Second Amendment. Hes not letting anything happen to your Second Amendment. And you know what? If we arent smart itll end for you with the Second Amendment, itll end for you and so many other things your taxes will go up. You know theyre talking about 70, 75% right, you know what we have it down to and we got the business tax down to 21% from essentially over 40%.
Fred Keller is a tough man, hes tough on crime. He loves our military, loves our police, he loves our vets and he will always protect patients and he will always go for like me, and I say it so strongly because the fake news doesnt want to say it. We will always protect pre-existing conditions, very important.
And by the way, we got rid of the individual mandate, the worst part of Obamacare, and we almost had it repealed and replaced.
But we had one man that after campaigning for eight years, he decided to go thumbs down at two oclock in the morning. Thats all right, but well end up -- will end up with even better, because we have plans that are even better than that, so thats good. Sometimes, when you have adversity, it works out actually better, but I want Fred to please come on up. You have to get out tomorrow.
Fred Keller, 12th District hes going to be a great congressman. Fred.
Mr. President, welcome to Central Pennsylvania. Thank you for coming tonight to show your support for the hardworking people of Pennsylvanias 12th Congressional District. The people of northeastern and north central Pennsylvania have been behind you since day one. And Mr. President, our support for you is as strong today as it ever was.
In 2016, Pennsylvania put Donald Trump over the top, and in 2020, were going to do it again. Mr. President, since you took office, our economy is booming, more people are working, wages are rising, and America again is respected across the globe. Pennsylvania, do we want four more years? We do, Mr. President, we are making America great again.
Im running for Congress to help President Trump take care of our vets, make the middle class tax cuts permanent, build the wall and make sure that in everything we do, we always make sure Americas workers and families come first.
Our opponent, he wants to help Nancy Pelosi and the Washington liberals, he wants to help them pass the Green New Deal, take away your health care, and obstruct what our President is doing, the stakes couldnt be higher. This election, were gonna elect Donald Trump. President again in 2020, but this election, it begins tomorrow.
It begins tomorrow with a special election right here in Pennsylvanias 12th Congressional District. Folks, there couldnt be more at stake. You need to talk to your friends, family, and neighbors and tell them if they want to help President Trump make America great, they need to get out tomorrow and vote to send me to Congress.
Thank you. God bless you. God bless our President and God bless the United States of America.
Thank you, Fred. Go get em, Fred. So get out tomorrow, its a little bit of a referendum. You know a lot of people are watching this race. I dont know if there are other races or not, who the hell cares, we have Fred. We have to get Fred in there tomorrow. If he wins, they wont report it. If he loses it will be the greatest story in the history of our country.
They will make that into -- and we dont want that. They will make that into the single greatest event that our country has ever seen. Ive had it before where somebody comes, you know when we campaign for people they win and a lot of cases, Andy Barr in Kentucky and Im not just -- Im also -- You know, we also won the Senate.
You wouldnt believe that if you read, we won the Senate, we picked up two additional seats. Remember they were going to win the Senate, but I campaigned I made 32 major stops in a short period of time. Do you think thats easy? And then I had to make two more on the final day of a runoff. Cindy Hyde-Smith, she won, she did great, she did great, but that was -- that was a lot of work and we won the Senate, we got no praise, we got no acclaim -- we got nothing.
But you know what, tomorrow Fred is a lot of -- lot of people are watching a lot of those fakers back there watching and theyre going to -- theyre going to be reporting very positively, Im sure if he wins but gotta have -- you got ta make sure he wins, please. You know theyll say? "President Trump came to Pennsylvania and he went back home a loser."
I never want to be called a loser. Remember this, we, altogether, we, I, we, ran one time and were one and all, you know, but it was a big one. Now were going to have a second time, were going to have another one, and then well drive them crazy, youre ready? And maybe, if we really like it a lot and if things keep going like they go on well go and well do what we have to do. Well do a three and four or five but theyll have tomorrow.
We knew he -- oh, I dont want to say. Now were going to have another one, and its going to be great, and you know, one of the things were talking about, the greatest, probably, I think political slogan of all time is what you have in your heads, Make America Great Again, but now our military is so powerful, were taking on countries and trade that the Democrats and Republicans didnt do anything about, in all fairness.
For years and years, China, and so many other countries, I dont want to embarrass us because, frankly, a lot of them are great people, but they dont understand how they got away with it either, but we have to make a decision soon. Do we keep our logo? Do we keep our slogan, Make America Great Again? Or its very risky changing the most successful slogan has to be. They think that was one of the greatest elections of all time and now were taking the slogan or the logo from that election and possibly changing it. But weve had 101 or 102 all-time high stock markets, record stock markets.
We have just about the best unemployment in history, including the absolute best for African-American Asian, as you know, and Hispanic, so we have all of these records that weve been setting our military strong, our Second Amendment is good, everythings good. So do we make it Make America great Again? And were gonna go with cheers here, one way or the other, or do we make it Keep America Great?
Because you have some of -- look, you know this, you have some of these socialist wackos, they want to double and triple your taxes and that wont come close to paying for it. They want to knock down all buildings in Manhattan and rebuild them without windows, you know about that. Lets rebuild them, glass is no good.
We dont want windows, I used to love the view, but I think well all be forced to close up windows. No, its crazy what theyre saying, so many different things. So do we want Keep America Great or Make America Great Again. Well go Keep America Great first, ready. So Keep America Great or Make America First, Keep America Great.
Now its very hard to leave something that was so successful.
Ive heard people say even though its not spot on because in theory weve made America great again. We certainly will by the time of the election, but you look at the numbers, but its so good. Its very hard to take a expression and say, "Lets change it." So let me have it for make America Great Again.
So now we go, ready?, Keep America Great.
Ready, Make America Great Again. Wow, wow. Well, I like it because well sell many, many more hats that way. Well keep the hat the same color though, right? You understand what Im saying, though, that -- right? Keep America Great looking, Ive had that response from others. Its amazing I like to do polls that are cheap.
I hate to say it. This is a cheap poll, but its better than any poll you could get. You ever see they go out in the interview like 103 people. I got thousands here tonight. Well, I think well have to consider that then, but either way its going to be great. Were gonna have a great campaign. We have a great country and we have in fact made America great again.
We brought it back and brought it back and Ill tell you our country is respected again. All you have to do is speak to the folks in China in Japan. Speak to the folks no matter where you go, the European nations you speak to them. You go European Union as an example theyve badly mistreated us for many years, but they sound good.
I say the biggest -- theyre all European Union. We need a doctor, please, a doctor, please. We have a doctor, doctor in the house, please. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. Take your time. Some of these people in the front row theyve been here for two days and I dont I dont blame them, right. I dont blame them.
Theyve been waiting in line for two days and stuff. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. Take your time, doctor. Take your time. Those are our friends right there. Those are our friends. Take your time. How theyre doing? Are they -- shes going to be good, gonna be good. Doc, everything okay? You good? Good. Thank you.
We stick together, folks. We stick together. Take your time. Take your time.
We love you too. Even with that powerful mans voice. I love that guy. I think Im in love. Thank you. Thank you very much and thank you, thank you. Thank you for taking -- Doctor, thank you for such a good job. Thank you very much. Under my administration, were reversing years of failed trade policies that crushed Pennsylvanias middle class.
You know that better than anybody, you know it better than anybody what they did to Pennsylvania, in particular, Ohio, Pennsylvania, some of the states in particular. Frankly, North Carolina, what they did was disgraceful what they did to the workers. They took out your businesses. They moved them to other countries, they sold back the product with no taxes, nothing, you lost your jobs, we lost revenue and nobody even apologized except me. I said were going to turn it around and thats what weve done.
Now we have companies are pouring back into our country, they want to be where the action is theyre pouring back, including the auto companies.
In the eight years before my election, the United States lost a quarter of a million manufacturing jobs, but the great betrayal of the American worker ended on day one the day I took office, and you know that better than anyone. The forgotten men and women of America Will never ever be forgotten again, not going to happen and theyre looking for you, theyre trying to figure out who the hell were all these people.
Where did they come from, remember? Theyre deplorables, theyre deplorable. You know I watched her speech. Well, she actually said, "I thought worse." She said deplorables and didnt she say irredeemables? To show you how good I am politically. I said, "Oh, thats a killer." The word irredeemable is -- well, it turned out to be deplorable was the word that caught on, right?
I would say, irredeemable is worse than deplorable, what do you think?
But they believe in both and not only her. Thats the Democrats. Upon my inauguration, I inherited one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated. It was ready to be put into action, the Trans-Pacific Partnership that would have destroyed the state of Pennsylvania.
The TPP was a gift for the lobbyists and the donors, and the special interests in the foreign countries that have made a fortune hurting the American worker. The TPP would have been a catastrophe for the people of Scranton and Allentown and Pittsburgh. In my first week, I proudly withdrew the United States from further negotiations on that job killing disaster, which by the way, would have destroyed our auto business, would have destroyed it. Just like NAFTA, just like NAFTA was such a disaster.
This would have been worse. Its no wonder that when Joe Biden announced hes running for President. By the way, by the way, by the way we have thousands of people so -- and this is it Im not even announcing today, well wait for a couple of weeks, OK? This is just, we go in for Fred, look at the thousands and thousands of people we have.
Now, they said he had 600 people, no, not very good, not very good. Id say 150, and that was an announcement, right? Id, say 150 people, but he announced hes running for president. He said its because foreign leaders called him up and begged him to do it. Absolutely. Foreign countries liked it much better, thats what they want.
They want Biden so that China can continue to make $500 billion a year and more ripping off the United States. They like it. You look at what these countries have made. We lost on just trade, $800 billion on average for many years, 800 billion, not million, eight hundred millions a lot. Eight hundred billion is not even conceivable, and we didnt do anything about it, and I mean, not only President Obama, I mean others too.
Its a shame, but were straightening it out. Its not easy. Its not easy because we have a lot of assaults from within, but were straightening it out, and its getting done and you see whats going with China were taking in, we will soon be taken in over 100 billion dollars in tariffs. Remember this, they subsidized their product.
People are moving from China now to go to areas that are entire, were going to build places in Pennsylvania and others rather than like the old days. Remember the old days, we actually made our own product. OK, we made our own product very expensive for China. Theyre not happy, but thats OK, itll all work out.
Foreign countries liked it much better when they could push us around, rip us off, and make us pay for the privilege of handing over our jobs and handing over our wealth.
Eight long years ago, if you remember, I said its really bad were never going back the previous administration, what they did to our country. They should be ashamed of themselves. Sleepy Joe said that hes running to quote "save the world." Well, he was hes going to save every country, but ours. And remember he said a week ago, "Chinas not a competitor, China is not a competitor, you know, hey, look.
What theyve done to us is indescribable economically. We have rebuilt China, theyve done a great job and I dont blame China. I dont blame President Xi, I dont blame them. Look, we allowed it to happen. Our leaders allowed it to happen. Well, its not happening anymore. I ran and we have Saved America.
We made America great again and were going to keep America great. Thats what it is. And if you dont mind were going to take a little bit of money out of the $100 billion that were saving were going to take a little bit of money. What? OK, doctor, get the same doctor, get the same doctor. He was great.
Are you OK? OK? Well be OK, go ahead, take your time. Take your time. I love these people. I love them. Take your time. Will be OK, they say. Come on. Lets go make sure shes OK, make sure. You take your time. No, the truth is theres a lot of excitement at these rallies and they wait a long time and people are so -- Im excited, Im excited.
Lot of excitement, a lot of energy. We have a lot of low energy people out there that were competing against, low energy, but vicious, theyre vicious but theyre low energy. Thank you. Yeah, no more spying on Trump. I think they learned that didnt work out too well. You did a good job. You did a good job.
Where is -- where is Don Jr.? Don? They liked the job you did, Don.
You OK? Thank you. Thank you very much, great job. Thank you. So the very same establishment that sacrificed our prosperity, weakened our military, and tied us down through endless wars that never ended folks, they never ended. You saw what we did with the caliphate. Now you have to understand, these people are stone-cold crazy.
So you never say you won because then they blow up his store, they hurt and kill people. They are totally crazy, but we beat and took 100% of the caliphate. The area, the land took 100% and did it very rapidly very. But we want to start bringing our people back home. We win and bring them back home and now theyre asking us to repeat history and relive the same failures all over again the values that they brought you, like you wouldnt believe and were never going to let it happen.
One of the worst fiascoes from our former leaders was the disaster of NAFTA. All buildings in Pennsylvania and New England, all over, it were a total -- theyre empty, and even to this day, some were converted to nursing homes, some were taken over, but you still see the shock of what they went down and now were replacing them with a brand new beautiful buildings.
Weve got it up. Weve got it working again, all over the country, were building plants and factories like actually never ever before. Nearly two decades ago, the same politicians who gave us NAFTA also voted to admit China into the World Trade Organization, a disastrous, really decision. I mean, that was a disastrous decision.
Since then, weve lost 60,000, not jobs, listen to this, 60,000 factories.
Heres the good news, were building them all back, theyre coming back. You know, I used to give that because it was really two years ago, so many have come back, but I used to give that number and I used to say its gotta be a mistake. You cant lose 60,000 factories and when the fake news didnt correct me, I knew that I was correct because of I was off by one factory they would have said, "You made a mistake." Past leaders, let China freely plunder the United States economy and take the crown jewels of American industry.
Now we are finally responding to years of chronic trade abuses by defending our workers with tariffs and anything else, thats necessary because nobody is going to steal our businesses.
Nobody is going to close our factories and nobodys going to close our plants anymore, theyre, all coming back, and anyone who doesnt want to pay the tariffs has a simple solution, build your product in America, bring your factories back to Pennsylvania, where you want to be, anyway, you never wanted to leave in the first place, stupid policy and taxes forced you out under this administration, were living by two simple rules: buy American and hire American, right?
Simple, simple.
To protect our national security, we also impose a 10% tariff on foreign aluminum and a 25% tariff on foreign steel, and what thats done for your aluminum and steel in this country is incredible. Now, just this month, United States Steel announced that it will invest more than $1 billion to completely transform and make new demand.
While you know that you know where this is right, next to Pittsburgh in Pittsburgh, Does anyone know Mind Valley Works near Pittsburgh? Is spending over a billion dollars, thousands of jobs, the newest, the finest equipment in the world theyre going to make steel again in our country, they havent been building new plants for decades together were putting Pennsylvanias steel back into the spine of America and as we defend Our jobs, who are also defending our borders, and its tough, as I said, no betrayal of American workers has been worse than the Democrat Partys pursuit of open borders.
They want everybody to come in and theyre coming up by the thousands and Ill tell you what our border patrol or law enforcement, ICE, they are working, theyre apprehending 30, 40, 50,000 people at times, I mean, just in short periods of times. The laws are so bad if you dont release them they arrest you.
They arrest people that are working in law enforcement. Its a disgrace. Democrat backed policies have left our borders overrun our detention facilities overwhelmed as fast as we build them. They fill up and our hospitals, schools and public resources overburdened. Our country is full, we dont want people coming up here.
Our country is full. We want Mexico to stop, we want all of them to stop. Our country is packed to the gills. We dont want them coming up. Democrats claim to take care of the poor, thats what they want to do. Its not happening that way. The poor are being hurt, the middle income are being hurt, we would lose our businesses, we would lose everything if we go with the people that you see that are running for office.
You saw that. Last night I watch AlFred E. Neuman, whats going on with Fox, by the way? Whats going on there? Putting more Democrats on than you have Republicans, theres something strange is going on in Fox. Something very strange. Did you see this guy last night, I didnt want to watch him. You always have to watch the competition, if you call it that.
And he was knocking the hell out of Fox, and Fox has put him, and somebody is going to have to explain the whole Fox deal to me. Democrats even want to give welfare and free health care to anyone who crosses our border.
They want free healthcare, free education, free anything. Republicans believe we should take care of our own people, our citizens, we have no choice. Thats why we dont want him to come, and thats why my administration has published a new rule to ensure our limited supply of public housing is safeguarded for low income Americans, not for illegal aliens who are fighting to get it.
Well soon be taking further action to ensure that federal benefits are preserved for hardworking citizens who need them the most. Were also outlining historic pro-American Immigration Reform. Its working its way through, I must tell you, some of its not going to happen unless you vote for Republicans in the upcoming election, and I will tell you its not very far away and youre going to have great immigration laws.
People have no idea how bad they were, to remember, even three or four weeks ago they would say, theres no emergency at the border, and now everybodys admitting, I agree, it is an emergency. Ive been saying that for two years the choice is simple: Republican policies, protect U.S workers, democrat policies, protect smugglers, traffickers and even criminal aliens and drug dealers like youve never seen, the drugs were capturing them.
We dont let them go, recapture them and we do it very, very -- sadly, its almost like routine, but you have drug dealers coming into our country and making our people sick and were capturing them. And just one example, the sanctuary city of Philadelphia released a previously deported illegal alien from prison, rather than cooperate with federal authorities.
After his release that criminal alien raped a very young child, republicans believe our cities should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans not for criminal aliens, and we always stand with the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol and law enforcement. Our police have been incredible and we want to thank them too, because Ill tell you why.
Even tonight I see the way the way theyre working, and I hope the cameras get to see this crowd.
You know, usually those show like for people behind me. People would say, wasnt a large crowd, I said, "Well, you could tell by the -- they can actually tell by the cheering. It sounds like a big football field." They dont like to show the crowd. Explain that to me you know Im trying to tell them its really good.
For television to show the crowd, dont you show a show like this theres three or four people behind me, that will be very famous tomorrow, but they have lousy seats tonight. So I think youre better. On the issue of the Democrat Party, its never been further outside from the mainstream than it is now.
These people have gone nuts more than 120 Democrats in Congress have signed up for Bernie Sanders total government takeover of health care. Now, tell me many of you have phenomenal health care. You have private health care 180 million people they want to take it away from you.
They want to take away your health care, your health insurance they want to take it away. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion killing your Second Amendment and radical socialism. The Republican Party is the party that America wants. Thats what America wants.
Were the party of the American worker, were the party of the American family and were the party of the American dream. Every day weve made good in our motto: Promises Made, Promises Kept. Weve kept more promises than weve even made.
You take a look at what weve done between regulations and taxes, and I mean think of it, Right To Try. You know what Right To Try is? I wont go into it, you dont want to be there, but now we can give them the benefit of the great research we have the best in the world and theres a lot of great things happening.
I signed it eight months ago, a lot of great things happening with Right To Try. We passed the largest package of tax cuts in the history of our country. We eliminated 30,000 pages of job killing regulations from the Federal Register. Thats an all-time record and I withdrew the United States. I thought Id be hit hard on this one, and I was in just ask, how are they doing in Paris?
From the past administrations, job killing Paris Climate Accord, which would have cost a fortune and would hurt our country horribly.
We will never allow foreign bureaucrats and countries to trample on our sovereignty or to shut down our jobs, which is what that would have done. Yet. Every Democrat running for President wants to reopen the economic assault on Pennsylvania by crippling the coal and Shell industries and by crippling your now once again great steel industry.
Your steel industry is great, so if you want American energy, you have to go Republican. If you want a great country, you have to vote Republican. Weve appointed more than 100 federal judges already, soon to be a record, to apply the law as written, including, well, you know this, two great Supreme Court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh, two great justices.
Theyre great. Weve launched a historic initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs and last year, for the first time in 51 years, drug prices went down, first time in 51 years, but were going to bring in a way down. And we passed V.A. choice and V.A. accountability to give our veterans the care that they deserve and theyve been trying to pass these things for 45 years, we made a record setting investments in the United States military, including more than $70 million to build submarine propellers at the Naval Shipyard in a place called Philadelphia, and to protect Americas security I withdrew the United States from the horrible Iran nuclear deal.
Doctor, doctor. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. Take your time again. We have all night, right? I dont know what this does to television, but thats, OK. How is she doing? OK?Take your time. Take your time, doc. Those lights bright enough? I think thats why people are going down these crazy lights and they look like they cost a fortune too.
I dont know, I dont know who -- I dont know who got those lights but theyre very bright. A real genius got those lights. Hows it going, doctor? Good? Good? Good. Hes good. We take care of our people, we have great people. And I recognize Israels capital and open the American embassy in Jerusalem. And just a few weeks ago, the United States acknowledged Israels sovereignty over the Golan Heights and we stand with the People of Venezuela, Cuba and Nicaragua in their righteous struggle to be free, so each of us here tonight is united by the same timeless values.
We support the rule of law and the incredible men and women of law enforcement. Thank you all a lot of them here tonight. We protect, cherish and defend the Constitution of the United States, we reject the ideology of globalism and we embrace the doctrine of patriotism and the doctrine that we love our country.
We love our country.
We love the U.S.A., we believe in strong borders, strong families and a strong national defense. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe in religious liberty, the right to free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. We believe that children should be taught to love our country to be proud of our history and you always respect our great American flag and we believe in the words of our national motto: In God We Trust.
These are the traditions, the customs and principles that bind us together as neighbors, as citizens as Americans. These are the values that unite people all across this magnificent state of Pennsylvania, where, by the way I went to school, I went to school in Pennsylvania, and these are the reasons I need you to get out and vote tomorrow for Fred Keller.
Got to get out. Big showing. We got to win tomorrow, Fred. Fred is going to be working all night, all day. Fred Keller tomorrow, folks, remind each other, call each other up, get out and vote. Cant take a chance, hes going to win, were going to win. You joined our movement because you rejected the failures and betrayals of the past.
You stared down a corrupt system that enriched itself at your expense, and you look at what we just went through with this phony deal, this phony witch hunt that we all went through together is a disgrace. Now, theyre all blaming each other, you see, theyre all turning on each other, isnt that pretty to watch?
Its his fault, no, its his fault. Now, we caught em. They were spying -- they were spying on our campaign. Ill tell you what, if that ever happened to the other side, this thing would have been over two years ago, and you know it would have been treason. They would have called it treason and thats what it is. It was treason and it should never be allowed to happen to another President again ever, ever, ever.
You reclaim your destiny, you defended your dignity and you took back your country.
Well, we have a great new attorney general, who is going to give it a very fair and very fair. Youve always been loyal to this nation. Now, you finally have a President who is loyal to you. Its taking a long time. Your dreams and my dreams, your hopes or my hopes and your future is what Im fighting for each and every day.
Im fighting, I had such an easy life.
People say I had such an easy life, who the hell knew. It was going to be this difficult, but I love it. You know why I love it? Even though we had artificial obstacles put in our path, even though we had phony Russian hoaxes and witch hunts and people that hate Trump and hate you angry Democrats, all after us with all of it, and they still have its like little embers that are burning, theyre going crazy, because when the Mueller report was finished, it said no collusion, they went crazy, but you know what they knew it. They knew it. Its all a game, its not like they didnt know, they knew there was no collusion.
Theyre smart people, everyone from shift to Nadler to Schumer to Pelosi, they all knew there was nothing in there. I come to the great state of Pennsylvania and I said, "Oh, I need some help. Let me call, lets see, Russia, lets call Russia." Its the greatest hoax ever perpetrated on this country. From now, until November 3rd, 2020, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning.
Thats what were doing. With every last ounce of heart and hope and sweat and soul. We are going to make our stand and is a tough stand and its a beautiful stand. We are going to stand for liberty, we are going to stand for justice, we are going to stand for faith, family and freedom. We are going to stand for the sacred rights given to us by the hand of Almighty God.
We are one united movement, one united people and one United States of America and together we are the proud people of Pennsylvania, a great state, a beautiful state, a tough state. The people are tough and this strong and smart. I know em well. I know em well. And dont forget Biden deserted you, hes not from Pennsylvania.
I guess he was born here, but he left you, folks. He left you for another state. Remember that, please. I meant to say that. This guy talks about oh, I know Scranton I know that -- Well, I know the places better. He left you for another state and he didnt take care of you because he didnt take care of your jobs.
