Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Delivers a Campaign Speech in Las Vegas, NV|October 30, 2016
Thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much. This is the record crowd. I want to thank the great owner of this hotel and his incredible wife. Shes an incredible woman. Sheldon Adelson. And really incredible people and theyve been so supportive and we appreciate it. We appreciate it very much.
And Phil Ruffin, one of our great supporters is here tonight. Phil, we love Phil. And were doing great in the polls, were winning many national polls. And were ahead in many states including your great state and North Carolina and Ohio and Florida and Iowa and so many others. And just so you know, these polls came out yesterday and today.
This was before the blow up on Friday. These polls are from before the blow up. So, well see. Were on the cusp of a really incredible historic change that transfers power from a failed political establishment and returns that power to our families communities and citizens. In nine days, we are going to win the state of Nevada.
Nevada. State of Nevada. Right? You know, I dont know if you know, but everybody in New York says it the other way. And I did that once and I never will do it again, believe me. But were going to win the state of Nevada and were going to win back the White House. Early voting is underway way so make sure you get to the polls.
Whos voted? Thats like 50%. If anybody wants to leave right now, go ahead. I wont be insulted. Theres plenty of people outside that want to take your place. OK? Now make sure you vote because otherwise this incredible movement that weve created together, we wont get there and that will be very, very bad for all of us. It would be very bad for the country.
A Trump administration will immediately repeal and replace Obamacare. Its just been announced that the citizens of Nevada are going to experience a massive. A massive. In fact, I dont want to tell you what the number is. I wont because youll walk out of here depressed. Double digit hike in their Obamacare premiums for the year.
Ten of Nevadas 16 counties will have only Obamacare. And think of it, you can have one, exchange insure to choose from. They are in a very good position to negotiate with you, arent they? Now with Trump, were going to get rid of it and were going to have health care that is so good and so much less expensive because Obamacare forgetting about the costs which is ridiculous.
Its no good, it doesnt work. And your deductibles are so high youre never going to be able to use it. So Obamacare is a catastrophe for your state. In Minnesota, with a premium increase well be close to 60%. The Democratic governor has just said, "The Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable." Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.
In fact, much more expensive.  My contract with the American voter, outlines a plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. And Im asking for your vote so we can save health care for every family in your state and in this country. Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington.
Youve been seeing a little corruption. Right? Youve been seeing. System is rigged, its rigged. Little corruption youve been watching. As youve heard it was just announced on Friday that the FBI is reopening their investigation into the criminal and illegal conduct of Hillary Clinton.
Hillary has nobody but herself to blame for her mounting legal problems. Her criminal action was willful, deliberate, intentional and purposeful. Hillary set up an illegal server for the obvious purpose of shielding her criminal conduct from public disclosure and exposure. She set up this illegal server knowing full well that her actions put our national security at risk and put the safety and security of your children address.
To cover up her crimes, she bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena.  After, after, after, after she gets a subpoena and she deletes and bleaches and nobody even ever heard of bleaching. Did anybody ever hear of bleaching? You know why? Its such an expensive process but it makes him go away.
But I have a feeling, theyve just found a lot of them. Dont you think? I have a feeling. They just found a lot of them. We never thought we were going to say thank you to Anthony Wiener. Right? She made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer. She lied to Congress under oath, she lied to the FBI many times and then two boxes of email evidence, just recently, went mysteriously missing.
Then you have the WikiLeaks revelations which have exposed criminal corruption at the highest levels of our government. Hillary put the office of secretary of state up for sale and if she ever did get the chance -- which were not going to let her have -- shed put the Oval Office up for sale also. You have no doubt about that.
Yet now, its reported that the Department of Justice is fighting the FBI. Thats because the Department of Justice is trying so hard to protect Hillary Clinton.  They didnt try to protect our generals. They didnt try to protect a lot of other people. How can the attorney general be involved in this case or tell the FBI what to do? When the attorney general violated sanctity of law by secretly meeting with Bill Clinton, the husband of the possible target of the investigation and a possible target himself in an airplane on the tarmac in Arizona.
Remember, who is gonna play golf? Remember? But he just happened to be at the airport hanging around. And the attorney generals plane drove by, right? And his, "Oh, isnt that her?" "Oh yes." "Oh gee. Lets say hello. Lets say hello." Just there, it was a chance meeting they said, right?
Well, the meeting lasted 39 minutes and they supposedly talked about golf and grandchildren. So I give two minutes to golf, I get five minutes to grandchildren. But what they probably really talked about was the attorney generals reappointment should Hillary Clinton become president. Which I dont think is going to happen.
Because of this highly inappropriate meeting at best, the attorney general took herself essentially out of the case and put Director Comey in charge of making decisions. You saw that. Decision making process. So why is she now allowed to fight so hard to get someone who is so obviously guilty on so many different fronts off the hook?
In fact, it was publicly reported that sources close to Hillary Clinton said, and she actually I think said it to the papers, that she was thinking of reappointing Attorney General Lynch.  She was thinking, she said it. I mean, it was a statement she made. And effectively, I guess youd call that a bribe.
Wouldnt you -- wouldnt that called bribe? How could she say? Theyre going to make a decision on her. And youre talking about youre going to reappoint. She said it publicly, I believe. When I heard it. I found it a little bit hard to believe that shed say that. This is what we mean when we say the system is rigged.
Its rigged. What makes us exceptional is that we are a nation of laws and that we are all equal under those laws. Hillarys corruption shreds the principles on which our nation was founded. When the powerful can get away with anything because they have the money and the connections to rig the system then the people lose hope and confidence in the future of their country.
Corruption is corrosive to the soul of a democracy and it must be stopped and were going to stop. Because we have one ultimate check on Hillarys corruption. And that is the power of the vote. The power of the vote. The only way to beat the corruption is to show up and vote by the tens of millions including millions of people voting for the first time in their lives.
There was a great guy on television today, I have to tell you about it. His name was Sid Miller from Texas. Oh, they know Sid Miller. We create yet another star. But he was on this morning and he was on Fox. And a lot of you saw him and he said, "You know, these New Yorkers have it all wrong.
You guys have it all wrong." Hes from Texas wearing a big white hat. Smart guy. He said, "You know in Texas, I kept reading where were even." And I said, "Wow, I dont think so because I see the enthusiasm." But the voting started. He said, "I got to tell you, we have more people voting now than weve ever had ever in an election.
Theyre all coming from all over. Theyre people weve never seen before, theyve never voted before or they havent voted for 20 years and theyre all voting for Trump." And -- when they say. Then he said, "And when I listen to these guys talking." And I know every one of them because these are the most on -- I -- Ill tell you what?
These are the most dishonest human beings right back there.  For instance, when we tell them to turn the cameras to show this incredible record crowd -- record for this ballroom. This is the record for this ballroom. Sheldon told me that himself. Record. They dont show it. Youre wasting your time.
They dont show it because theyre dishonest. Because they dont want to show the crowds that we get, the biggest ever in the history of this country. Theres never been a movement like this and they dont want to show it. And were going to go into it in a couple of seconds but they are very dishonest. The media is very, very dishonest.
Show the crowd. Why dont you show the crowd? Turn the cameras. Theyll get up. Couple of them get up, they say, "Donald Trump spoke today before a small crowd." Its disgusting. The other day a man got up, we had 17,000 people, he said, "Donald Trump spoke in front of a few thousand people." Well few to me means three.
I dont know, thats the way I grew up. When I hear a few thousand people, that sort of means to me like three. Anyway, very, very dishonest people. But Sid Miller said, "Weve never had anything like this. Its 50% higher than it has ever been before in Texas." And he said, "Were going to win." And he wasnt for me. He said, "Trump is going to win by massive numbers bigger than anyones ever seen." And he said, "So I dont know what you people are talking about on television." Where theyre saying the vote in Texas is going to be very close.
He said, "I dont know what you people are talking about. You must be talking about a different Texas than the one Im from." So we love the people of Texas and I know whats going. And you know what else? The same thing is happening in Florida. The same things happening in North Carolina is happening all over.
Because people are sick and tired of stupidity and deals and look at Iran. Look at the Iran deal. Theyre sick and tired of the Iran deal. They dont want to be giving Iran 1.7 billion in cash.  Be from here up to the ceiling. They dont want to remember three weeks ago. They had 800 people that we -- they were getting ready to deport.
Right? You saw this, right? They had him. Bad, they were tough. Anybody that gets deported from this country, believe me, they have to be tough. So they have 800, a little mistake. Instead of deporting them they all became United States citizens.  And Ill tell you thats not the worst of it. The worst of it, it wasnt 800 people it was 1,800 people.
OK. So congratulations. You have some wonderful new citizens of this country. And then what is that? Thats OK. Fix the problem. Thats OK. Fix it. They said, "That wouldnt be constitutional." Give me a break. All right.  So were stuck. 1.7 billion in cash to Iran. Can you believe? Can you imagine their eyes when they saw that money being brought in by truck?
Can you imagine? Did you ever see what a million dollars looks like in cash? Its a lot of -- thats a lot of money. 1.7 billion in cash and then what did they do? They grab our sailors, our 10 sailors destroy their lives. Humiliate those people, instead of saying, "Hey listen, youre in our waters. Youve got to get over a little bit." They humiliate the sailors, they humiliate our country and they would have kept them except their $150 billion payment started the next day.
OK? Stupid theyre not.  And people are tired of it. Were tired, were sick and tired of it. And dont forget, I was on the other side for a long time, folks. I understand that side very well and its a good life. But I love this country. I love the people of this country. And were going to change it. Were going to change.
Were going to -- were going to do it right. So go out and vote with all your heart and soul and were going to make America great again. That I can tell you. OK? Restoring honesty to our government and the rule of law to our society will be one of my truly highest priorities. Now we have a lot, we have to rebuild our military, we have to create borders.
We have to do so much. But thats going to be right up there. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words that we all, not me, we have to say. When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.
True. You know, I told people the other day, drain the swamp. I said, "I dont really like that expression." This was two weeks ago. I said, "I dont love that expression. So hokey." I thought it was hokey. I said you know. And all of a sudden, I -- I said, "Oh, I hate to use this. Its sort of like it doesnt work right." And I said it two weeks ago to a big crowd.
And I said it and the police were crazy. Then I said it a second time and a place went even crazier. And then the third time, like you, they started saying it before I said it. And all of a sudden, I decided I love that expression. Its a great . Crazy. Right? Drain the swamp.
Thank you. You know, a man who loved Las Vegas was Frank Sinatra. And he had as we like Frank Sinatra. Right? Frank Sinatra, he was great. And when he originally heard and sang for the first time My Way. How do we like My Way? Yes? But he didnt like it. But then he sang it a couple of times and then it went to No. 1. and all of a sudden he loved it. OK? So he loved it. Thats the way it works, you never know.
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. Right? Right now, 70 million American women and children live in poverty or near the brink of poverty. 43% of African-American school aged children are living in poverty. 34% of Hispanic school age children live in poverty. This is unacceptable in our country.
Its unacceptable in America. As your president, I will go into the poorest communities and work on a national plan for revitalization. We will break decades of failure and prove that real change is possible if we simply cut our ties with the failed politicians and politics of the past. America has lost one third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA.
And Hillary loved it. America -- and this is something that every time I say it, I always because it sounds so crazy. I thought it was a typo. I thought it was 700 factories or 7,000 maybe. America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the world trade organization. Another Bill and Hillary backed deal.
Were living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of our world. Whats happened to our jobs? Its the greatest jobs theft all because our politicians are either incompetent or theyve gotten so much campaign contributions or other things -- or other things. And the special interest, you know, special interests like whats happening.
But were getting wiped out. You go to Michigan, you go to I mean, you go to New England. You look at areas around here, you look at whats happened. Its a one lane highway into Mexico. No way out. They get the jobs, they get the money, they get the plants. I tell the story of my friend, he builds plants.
Hes the biggest in the world, he buys plants. Thats what he does. Thats what he wants to do. Thats all he wants to do. If you said, "Build an apartment." He wouldnt know how to go about it. Okay? All he does, he builds the biggest in the world. I said, "How is business?" He said, "Unbelievable. Its unbelievable." "Where?" "In the United States." "No not at all.
In Mexico, its the seventh wonder of the world." So weve got to -- weve got to have -- weve got to change things, folks. A Trump administration, will stop the horrible, horrible, horrible Trans-Pacific Partnership. We will renegotiate NAFTA and we are going to stand up to Chinas currency manipulation.
I have great relationships with China but their currency manipulation, what they do to our country is unbelievable. We have a trade balance -- think of this, we have a deficit, trade deficit with China. Almost $500 billion a year. We owe China $1.5 trillion. Thats a good act. They come in, they take our jobs and make our product, they make a fortune.
And we owe them 1.5 trillion, good act. But well get it solved. I have great relations with China. I made a lot of money with China. The biggest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in Manhattan, its from China. The biggest bank in the world by far. Not even close. The condos, I own the bank of America building with a great partner in San Francisco.
Got it through China through a certain very complicated road. Were going to lower taxes on American business from 35% to 15%. Were going to cut taxes for middle class family by hundreds of billions of dollars a year. And my infrastructure plan will provide help for projects like the proposed Interstate 11 here in your state.
We will become a rich nation again. We will become a rich country and we have to be a rich country in order to do what we have to do. A woman came up to me recently and she said, "Mr. Trump, it sounds so crass when you say were going to become a rich nation." I said, "But we have no choice. We need our social security, we need our Medicare, we have to rebuild our military.
We need all of this stuff. We need all of this stuff." Yeah. Make sure that shes OK. Some of these people have been here for eight hours. Thats OK. You take your time. Take your time. Take your time. Maybe we can open that gate up. If we have to we should. Yehey, look at her. Are you OK? Shes tougher than all of us, folks.
Shes been here for eight hours. If you need, youll come right through here. Right? We have strong people. Hey, did you see where the Democratic National Committee? Did you see this? They were paying. You know, the rallies where we used to have these fights? And I didnt understand it. I said, "Whos fighting?" Were like theres so much love in these rooms.
By the way, theres no better place to be than a Trump rally. Right? So -- So I said, "Whats going on?" And we had one in Chicago where the police -- and we love our police, by the way. Were the police a couple of mad gashes in their heads. I said, "Whats going on? This doesnt make sense." So it came out through WikiLeaks that we had thugs.
Thugs who should be put in jail. By the way, they attacked policemen in addition to our people. But they were paying thugs. Hillary Clinton was paying thugs $1,500 each plus an iPhone. And they were paying these thugs to go in and disturb by rallies and get into fights. And that was on a tape made by a very talented young man.
I will tell you that. Very talented guy. And they got him on tape bragging about how they did it and everybody blamed me. Right? And they blamed us that the rallies are violent. Let me tell you, its a disgrace to disgrace. It is such a disgrace. And lots of other things happened where they take care of people and then bad things.
But we dont fall for it. To be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. Well support local police and federal law enforcement in an effort to aggressively reduce surging crime. So far, this year in Las Vegas, homicides have increased 27% over last year. And by the way, people dont know this because this dishonest media will never say it. Murder rates are up, right now.
Murder is up 45 -- think of it. Think of it. You know what it is? In 45 years -- in -- in 45 years, right now, the rates are the highest theyve been. Murder rates, highest theyve been in 45 years. And they dont want to talk about it. They dont want to talk about it. You know what you do? Let her out right here.
Open the gate. Let her out right here so much easier. Fellas, fellas open the gate, use your heads. Let her out right here. Thank you darling. Thank you. If you feel better, come back. Will we take her back? Yes. We love her. Thank you. Latinos for Trump, I love that. Give me that sign. I love this stuff.
From Mexico. You have to say hello .
Yes. Im a Latino for Trump and Im very proud to -- to vote for Mr. Trump because hes for law and order. And he believes -- he wants things to be right. You have to come into this country legally. You cant just come in here, pouring in here and -- and you cant come just come in here and having illegal people costs $113 billion a year to support them.
With that money it -- it should be for Americans, for veterans. Mr. Trump, I learned this from you.
Shes better than me. I never did it that well. Boy, thats so great. We are going to do so well with the Latinos but we are going to do so well because we want security, we want safety, we dont want people. You have so many people, theyre living here legally. They have a job they dont want their jobs taken away.
I mean, its luck. But I appreciate that, that was really nice. We will also keep our nation safe. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Were going to keep our nation safe from a thing called terrorism. Hillary Clinton wants to increase Syrian refugees pouring into our country by 550%.  Thats over Obamas number.
Thats over in the thousands and thousands that are already coming in through Obama. When Im elected president, we will suspend this Syrian refugee program. I have no choice And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Believe me. But were also going to work to build safe havens over there.
And were going to get the Gulf states to pay for it. We dont have to pay for it, they have plenty of money. Were going to get the Gulf states to pay for it and they will pay for it. And we have to help the people but we just cant do this anymore, folks. We have problems. We dont need to be the great -- the great Trojan Horse.
Modern day version, Great Trojan horse not going to be us. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a wall. Sheldon you have a great, great hotel. But I tell you, we could have made this ballroom a little bit larger maybe.
Could have made it larger. This is some great space. And we also have, by the way, the legendary Phil Ruffin of Las Vegas. Where is Phil? Where is he? I get him over here. OK. He employs thousands of people and hes a great guy. Hillary has pledged open borders and supports sanctuary cities.  Countless Americans are killed by illegal immigrants because our government refuses to do its job.
Right here in your state, 20 year old Brian Corsi was shot and paralyzed by an illegal immigrant. He fought for his life in the hospital for 17 days. Ultimately he died. Brian was a basketball star loved by everybody with dreams of becoming a firefighter, right here. On Mothers Day, in 2009, Carson City, born beautiful, beautiful person just an incredible person.
Rene Angelo was out driving looking for a job when he was shot in the head and murdered by a previously deported illegal immigrant gang member. Everybody said, "We must get him out of our country. We must incarcerate him. We must do something. This -- this guy was brutal." Rene was pulled from his vehicle and left to die on the side of a road.
A good Samaritan who thought there had been a car accident stopped to help and he was also shot. The illegal immigrant killer had a previous conviction as an accessory to murder in Carson City and he had a record as long as your arm. But the Obama administration didnt want to put him out.  Josh Wilkerson, whose mother Ive gotten to know during this campaign, was murdered at the age of 17. Josh a student in a high school and a good student was tortured, strangled and beaten to death by an illegal immigrant and then his body was set on fire.
And there are so -- there are so many of these stories. When I become president, this crime wave will end and it will end very, very quickly. We will end illegal immigration. We will deport all criminal illegal immigrants. You have a lot of people that are walking around. And the great thing our local police, they know who they are, they know him better than they know their own family.
And we will get them out. Now, when Hillary brought them out, theyd bring them back to their country and the country very intelligently wouldnt take them. Right? And so wed bring them back, would release them into our society. She would always let them come back. She didnt want to make waves. That will never ever happen once, not once, with me. We will also -- so important.
And by the way, the border patrol agents of this country and ice, both of them, theyve never endorsed a candidate for president before. Both groups, every one of them, both groups endorsed Donald Trump. So that means we. We will also repeal the Obama Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military.
We have the greatest people in the world but we need help. We have the endorsements of over 200 Admirals and Generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. And I want to thank General Flynn for being here, great guy, great man. Our air force is the smallest and oldest in its history. And my plan calls for building new fighter jets.
You know what this is? Nellis. Nellis Air Force Base. Youre going to have nice new plans. Nellis Air Force Base. Did you ever see where our fighter jets are so old that we cant get parts anymore for them? These are planes and service theyre so old, we cant get parts. Thats going to change.
The enemy has better planes than us and they buy them from us or they take them. We also need a new foreign policy that puts America first again, America first. Hillary in our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East. And now its in worse shape. I mean, think of it. All of that money, all of those lives.
And its in far worse shape than it ever has been by a factor of 10. Theyve dragged us into foreign wars. Theyve made us less safe. And these are wars that they never win, we dont win. We dont win at anything, we dont win at trade, we dont win at wars. Theyve left our borders wide open at home and theyve shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.
To all Americans, I say, it is now time for real leadership. Were going to have real leadership.  So sad. So sad. Thank you. Thank you. In closing, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. Were going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.
We will eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation. We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order. And by the way, Hillary Clinton, just in case you dont know it. You do know, she wants to raise your taxes substantially.  Will lowering your taxes.
She wants to raise your taxes substantially. Were going to rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans. Our veterans are going to be taken proper care of for once and for all. Well reduce surging crime and support the incredible men and women of law enforcement. Were going to provide school choice, very important.
And put an end to Common Core so we can bring our education local. We will save the Second Amendment which is under siege. The NRA endorsed Trump. The NRA endorsed us. And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have to defer their dreams to another day but they really mean defer their dreams to another decade. You know that, and I know that, and they know that. Hillary has been there for 30 years and shes accomplished nothing. Shes just made things worse.
Shes a candidate of yesterday and we are the movement of the future. And speaking of the future, heres Mr. Phil. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Phil Ruffin, one of the great people of Las Vegas. I will tell you. One of the great, great people. How many people do you employ in Las Vegas? He employs 4,000 people.
Thats pretty good. Right? Im a little disappointed. I thought it was more. Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and from all walks of life. We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, independents and first time voters. Its going to be a lot of them. Going to be a lot of them.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and the special interests. Were fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better future for their children.
Washington D.C. wants to think small but I am asking you to dream big again. Dream big again. With your vote, we are just nine days from the change youve been waiting for your entire life. Think of it. Think of it, nine days. And youre going to remember this day and youre going to remember when you cast your vote and youre going to say that this was a very important day.
But youre going to say that the vote you cast was the most important vote that youve ever cast because our country will start winning again. Were going to start winning again. And youre going to be proud of your country again. And hopefully, hopefully youll be proud of your president. But youre going to be proud of your country again.
