Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Ashburn, VA|August 8, 2016
Thank you. So we have tremendous crowds of people outside.  Would anybody like to give up your seat?  So I think what were going to have to do is a little different. You know we have been so crowded, theres something going on big, even bigger than before because every place we go we have these massive crowds.
Yesterday, we were in Ohio, we were in Pennsylvania and Harrisburg and we had crowds that were so enormous, so much bigger than the venue. So were gonna have to start using the basketball arenas, dont you agree?  You know, we have -- outside, we have like thousands of people. Theyre going crazy because they cant get in. So bear with us but I did get to wave to them OK? So it was good.
But these are great people. You know. Something very nice just happened to me. A man came up to me and he handed me his purple heart. Applause] Now, I said to him now, is that like the real one or is that a copy?  And he said thats my real purple heart, I have such confidence in you. And I said man, thats like -- thats like big stuff. I always wanted to get the Purple Heart. This was much easier.
But I tell you, it was such an honor and maybe I can bring him up on the stage Lieutenant Colonel Louis Dorfman, I just have to.  So I said Lieutenant Colonel would you like to say something? He goes no, sir. Id like you to just keep saying what youve been saying. Its amazing. Applause] What an honor, what an honor. That was great. So thank you all for being here. Were gonna have a little fun this morning and were going to be back in Virginia a lot.
We have to win Virginia.  You know, I have a club in Virginia, do you all know my club? Trump National.  And if we could do to the United States what I did to that, boy would we have a country. Thered be nothing like it anywhere, ever, in history.
But you know, I took over a club what, 10 years ago? And it was on the Potomac River and its right next door. And in fact, I wish we did this out at the golf club, to be honest with you. Right on the Potomac. Maybe well do that, the next one lets do it on the Potomac, I dont know, do it, right? Right?  Well do it outside, on the Potomac, by the American flag.
You know, I have tremendous acreage there, we have like almost 800 acres and its got two clubs, two courses. We have the PGA coming next year for a big, big, big tournament and its the best there is in the tri-state. Its one of the best golf courses in the country and its been a tremendous success Well, I took it over, it was great acreage but it was not so great, right? And we blew it up and built new and it was -- its been a fantastic success and its in Loudon County.
And therefore I cant imagine that the people of Loudon are going to be voting for crooked Hillary Clinton. She doesnt do anything, because -- Ive --  Yeah -  So did you see over the weekend Fox, Chris Wallace, where she lied, where she said the FBI Director said like everything was just perfect, it wasnt exactly - I mean she lied, she pure and simple - she only knows to lie. She really does, only knows to lie. But she lied, and its a big story.
Its become a big story and thats amazing. Its amazing that they covered because the press is so totally dishonest, OK? So totally dishonest. And there is nothing like it, Ive never seen dishonesty like that. And theyre pushing her like crazy because its establishment stuff and we have to make change.
You know shes now calling herself an agent of change. Shes been doing this for 30 years. You know numbers just came out for her where she raised like $50 or $60 million and 20 people gave it. I think it was - lets see 20 people gave her $60 million in her fund.
$60 million from 20 people. I want to get a list of those 20 people. Oh those 20 people, I want to find out who they are, I want to find out how many I know. I want to find out - I want to find out how many I know.
But Ill tell you what, 20 people gave her $60 million. And thats what Ive been saying folks. Look I know the game better than anybody and the game is played that way. They own her.
They own her. They will do whatevers good for them. If they have a company that wants to move plants into Mexico, shes going to say - first shell say thats no good. And then shell say oh I see.
They helped me I have to let them do it, because her handlers - thats what they are is handlers -- they write her speeches, they write everything, she doesnt give a talk like this with no teleprompters, she gets up and she has teleprompters, she gets on the stage for 20 minutes, she reads something and she leaves. She goes back home and goes to sleep. Thats what she does. She reads it.
She goes home. She goes to sleep. And thats OK, Im not knocking it, but the 20 people, think of it, so you have 20 people giving $60 million, it just got announced or its being announced today. But were announcing something even more special.
Were announcing that were going to have more than $35 million from a group of people like almost 60,000 people averaging 61  this doesnt happen to Republicans. You know most Republicans, I mean I think all, if they ever did that theyd have like three people giving $12 and theyll say thats about as good as were going to do. Were going to have close to 60,000 people, and its going to be, think of it, it averages $61 approximately. I guess its going to be filed later or tomorrow or something, but it averages $61 each.
And well have $35.8 million but I think its going to even be higher than that, because its not totally tabulated. But its going to be higher than that. And that doesnt include other money that were getting from the RNC and the Republican Party, and it doesnt include the money that I put up, because I put up a lot of money to fund my own campaign. And -- - a lot.
I think Im into this for over $60 million - over $60 -- $60 million, if you dont vote for me, look at the money - Ill probably be in for $100 by the time I finish. Think of it $100 million cash -
Talking 61 ...
OK good, thank you. Ill be in for over 100, and think of it, no tax deduction. See, everything I do, I think tax. After tax, before tax, but no deductions.
But Ill be in for over $100 million when its all finished, or thereabouts. And its a lot of money, thats a lot of money, and nobody else does that. Other rich people dont do that either. Not that many rich people run because theyre told if youre rich and if youre successful you cant run for political office because theyll kill you.
And I said I agree, I do agree. I think Im a testament to either never do it or do it. I will say this -- I will say this, its been unbelievable. Its been -- the journey from June 16, coming down on the escalators, its been an unbelievable event.
I came down with Melania on that escalator and I want to tell you...  Everybody loves Melania.  They love Melania. Shes a good person, Ill tell you that.
Shes smart and I thought she gave an unbelievable speech, unbelievable presentation. Unbelievable.  And Ivanka did the introduction, unbelievable job.  And Tiffany and Don and who do we have here today? We have Eric.  Eric, wheres Eric? Eric come here.  Eric Trump, everybody.
Wow, this is a great crowd, wow. Well, listen we are, and I say this all the time, but were so proud of my father. Its an honor to be in Loudoun. In fact, him and I, when I came out of college, the first job we worked on together was the great golf course that we have here.
And the two of sat there and we put a tremendous amount of time and effort into rebuilding it and we had a great time and it was kind of the perfect -- perfect first opportunity for a son to work with a father and Ive learned so much from this man. Hes been such an incredible father and mentor and boss and friend and every other word that you could put on it. Hes just the best and he will do a great job for this nation. He will do such a great job for all of you and we are so, so, so immensely proud of him. So, with that, I give you back to the big guy, thank you so much Loudoun County.
Hes a good guy. Hes done a good job.  Hes in there pitching and I thought the Republican National Convention was better than the other one, OK?  I think my kids were great, I thought everybody did great. I actually thought it was better and we had more people watching the final night because that was the speech, that means a lot, by millions, but I will tell you, I will tell you, yes.
Friend or foe? Probably friend. Thank you. All right. Your 15 seconds of fame.
Well now that Bernies out, we dont have the -- doesnt happen anymore, its like amazing, its -- you know the safest place to be anywhere, is at a Trump rally, thats true.  Safest place to be. I mean Ill just tell you something, you dont even know youre doing it but here we are. We have chairs, right? Everybodys standing. Everybodys standing because we have -- its excitement.
Theres like an excitement in the air. You have seats and everybody stands. If you want, you can sit down. But everybody said -- they dont want to sit down -- but we have such fun considering we have a very bad subject you know the country is in trouble.
But were going to make it good you know a lot of people thought my speech was dark. The -- the haters -- no only the haters we got great marks -- but the haters said well he did a good job, his delivery, everything was good but it was dark. And I said, it wasnt dark, I talk about radical Islamic terrorism.  I talk about... Applause] I talk about drugs pouring across the border, I talk people coming in that arent supposed to be here, I talk about crime, I talk about our police being shot, we love our police and we have to protect our police.  I talk about our veterans because our veterans are being treated horribly.  When you hear twenty-two suicides a day thats inconceivable, twenty-two suicides a day. Our veterans are being treated horribly, were going to turn that around so fast your head is going to spin. Applause] People..  People waiting in line for 5, 6, 7 days, the veterans, our great people and thats why maybe the lieutenant colonel did that. I mean its such an amazing thing. I -- he showed it me and I said, here thank you very much, heres a -- no, Mr.
Trump I want you to keep it. I said, keep it?" I mean these are incredible things that happen And thinking about lieutenant colonel, thinking about our military -- our military is totally depleted, totally depleted. Our military is not being funded properly, we dont have enough money going in. We need a strong military, we need a powerful strong military. Applause] When you look at whats happening -- when you look at whats happening around the world and when you look at the hatred, think of it, we are like the whipping post for many, many countries on trade, they kill us on trade. But in every way they dont respect us, China is building this massive, massive military complex in the South China Sea. They didnt get environmental impact statements by the way, they just...  They said on Monday morning were going to start building, and on Monday afternoon they started, you knows thats the way it works right? We would -- we could never do that because we would have to environmental impact statements -- would 30 years then they would reject it. Applause] We dont do things like that and you know thats fine. Theyre not supposed it do it -- theyre not supposed to do it, they dont respect us. Now very simply, we have tremendous power with China. Some of the top people in the world representing China have called me and one of them in particular, said You know Mr.Trump? I thought you were so wrong a year ago.
I heard your very strong rhetoric on trade with China and everything with China. We dont do things like that and you know thats fine. Theyre not supposed it do it -- theyre not supposed to do it And you have to understand China is great as far as Im concerned, I want to get along with China -- by the way wouldnt it be great if we got along with Russia? Wouldnt that be great?  If we actually had a relationship with Russia, instead of all the fighting and money and the problems and if we could get Russia and others to partner up and go and knock the hell out of ISIS. Wouldnt that be a good thing? Wouldnt that be a good thing?  These people...  These people are so obsolete.
You know these people, you know sometimes theyll say oh could I have a list of your -- the people that youre consulting with. I said, Well youre not going to like it because these are people that arent involved currently. These people are so obsolete. You know these people Well why arent they involved currently? They said because look at the world, its a mess. I dont wanna use the people that are involved currently.
Look at the world, its a mess. Look at what happened in the Middle East. Look at whats going on with North Korea. And look at whats going on with -- we have a mess out there.
We have a total mess. Because Ill give names that are better and theyll say but these people havent been involved and I said who wants the people that are currently involved? Nothings working out. Nothings working out. Look at Libya, look at Syria, look at the migration, look at Iraq, what a mess.
Look at -- look at Afghanistan, what a mess. Look at everything. If we didnt do anything with Iraq, if we never went there, if our presidents went to the beach wed be much better off. If they just went every single day to the beach and took it easy, let Obama go to the golf course.
But -- but you know what? Wed be better off. And then the way Obama got us out of the war was a disaster. Were going to get out on a certain date. The enemies sat back and they said nobody could say that, nobody.
Actually, they thought it was a form of camouflage. Actually, they didnt believe it until it happened. He actually said when theyre getting out. But they laid back and then after we left you -- you see whats happening.
So look, we have people that dont know what theyre doing. Hillary Clinton will be worse. Shell be worse. OK? Hillary Clinton will be worse.
She has bad relationships with people like Putin. Ill give you an example. She has terrible relationships with Putin. This is a nuclear country were talking about.
Russia, strong nuclear country. And so are we. But their stuff is newer. Their stuff is newer.
So shes looking at -- they have more -- I dont even want to say it -- they have a lot more, OK? So you know, she wants to play the tough one. Shes not tough. Shes not tough. I know tough people, shes not tough.
I mean shes -- shes just -- shes doing the handlers, they push her from place to place thats all it is. You saw her speech the other night. I mean they talk about presidential, do you think she looks presidential? I dont think so.  I dont think so.
So -- so you know, she wants to play the role of the tough guy against Putin and Russia and she wants to play not tough, not tough. She should be tough on trade, OK? Because right now we are being ripped off on trade like nobody has ever ripped us off in history. You look at our trade deficits with China. Hundreds, I mean just take a look -- the numbers, five -- think of this.
Five hundred and five billion dollars? Look at our trade deficits total, more than $800 billion trade deficits coming out of this area, by the way. Coming out of the state of VA and every place else. I mean Ive gone through -- I won so many states. And we won in landslides or I wouldnt be here.
Look, if I didnt win, this system was not set up for somebody like me to come in and exert brains and common sense, OK? It wasnt set up for that. Its set up for politicians.  And if I didnt win in massive landslides, I mean I won by a landslide. Got 14 million almost 14 million votes.
Thats more than anybody has ever gotten in the history of the Republican Party. And remember...  And thats with 17 people. People keep forgetting, thats with 17 people and yet we had -- you know when Ronald Reagan who we loved.
But when other people ran, theyd run against one or two people, or three people.D. And its a lot different. Seventeen people, we broke the all-time record. I think were gonna do so great and I see some great polls.
I see one from -- from the Los Angeles Times, just came out, where were ahead by four or five points. I see one from CNN where were down. I think these polls I dont know theres something about these polls. Theres something phony.
You know I watch CNN, they are so negative all day long, its all Trump all day long, and you know what their ratings are going down, and their ratings are going to start to go down big because I dont do interviews for them. Theyre doing a big documentary on me now. They have one problem: they need an interview from me, so let them do it without me, who cares. But theyre very unfair.
All day long its negative. In fact I have some great things that have happened, right? And theyll cover it in a negative manner, so it sounds negative, great stuff. Great stuff. Even when I was winning -- I was winning by tremendous numbers, we had numerous people left, and Id get like 42 percent of the vote with many people, getting 42 percent is impossible.
I get 42 percent they say why hasnt he hit 50? I said well theyre 11 people, how do you get 50. You understand right? No, but CNN treats me so badly its unbelievable. And you know what I dont watch it anymore, I dont watch. You know you learn to live good, you learn to stay healthy, you learn to have a good common smart mind by turning off the negative does that make sense? Turn it off, dont fight it, turn it off.
Just turn it off. But CNN treats me so badly, I mean the New York Times, which I call the failing New York Times because its failing, its losing a fortune. And it will be - I think its out of business in three years, maybe somebodys going to buy it for a little while until they lose all that money, but theyll buy it for a little while and theyll keep it as - you know some rich guys going to buy it. But the New York Times, which is - it could do worse, I mean frankly that wouldnt be bad if somebody bought it -- but the New York Times is failing badly.
They write stories that are so bad about me, and you know all my life Ive probably been on the cover of the Times a few times, right? Now if I have two stories or three stories a day on the cover - today I have two stories, both ridiculous stories - but today I have two stories -- for the front page. I mean I guess they use me to sell newspapers, but they are so dishonest. The reporting is so dishonest. I wont get into individual reporters names, because Id like to - I could tell you the good ones and the bad ones.
And they have a couple of good ones over there, but they are such a dishonest newspaper. They want Hillary Clinton to win so badly they cry, they beg, they beg. The editorials are unbelievable. I mean heres a woman who is a total thief, I mean shes a crook, shes a crook, and she lies more than any human being Ive ever seen.
And shes got no gravitas, and by the way, shes got a bad temperament. Shes got a temperament of a loser. I mean Im going to get the Barack Obama clips when he beat her. Eight years ago Barack Obama said things about her that were so bad, and today I just said, do me a favor look them up because I remember how bad.
Now all of a sudden hes supporting her. And you know look its a hope, because shes going to keep Obamacare, shes going to let people continue to pour into our country and we have no idea who the hell they are. Shes going to let the Syrian refugees come in and we dont know if theyre ISIS, we have no idea. Its going to be the all time great Trojan Horse -- they come in by the thousands.
And she wants - hard to believe, actually it was funny -- I actually said it was 500 percent and the press said I was wrong, they said it was 550. You believe that? They actually even corrected me on that. D. But 550 percent more coming into the country that are coming in right now.
Think of it. So someday, it always happens, look at France, look at Germany, look at whats going on with people blowing themselves up in a bar. With people shooting, look at Paris, look what happened in Paris, 130 dead, many, many people still in the hospital, theyll never be - theyll never be recovered -- never be recovered. But you just take a look at whats happened and you tell me that we have to be weak.
Weak and ineffective and that we have to allow tens of thousands of people to pour into our country. She wants 550 percent more people. Think of it, 550 percent more people coming in from that region that are coming in under Barack Obama. And you know theyre put all over the country, you dont even know where the hell they are.
So were going to have problems like you have never seen, mark my words, Ive been a very good prognosticator. Ive called a lot of good things and bad things, but Ive called them. But mark my words, youre going to see some bad stuff. We need strong borders.
We need strong borders.  We cant have people coming in from Syria that have bad intentions and we dont know who they are. And if we do, we are really a very, foolish nation. Look at whats happening with Germany.
The crime wave over there -- Merkels not going to be elected. You know Brexit, I predicted Brexit. Remember? I was the only one. So they were given a 20 percent chance in Las Vegas and the bookies over there, they were saying 20 percent chance.
I said I think its going to win. I took such heat, remember? I took such heat. I won and they gave me -- even though I won they all said bad things. Oh, they said I was grandstanding because I won.
I just -- they said whos going to win? I said I think theyre going to pull out. Theyre going to pull out of the union, the U.K. is going to pull out of the union. So I said, the European Union.
So I said thats going to happen. And the reason is, Im there, I have a lot of property in the U.K., great property, fantastic property - Turnberry - I have so many great properties. But you know what? I felt just -- I had a feel, and Im not there much, I may never it again. If I win, I may never see my property -- I may never see these places again.
But boy is Eric and the kids going to have a good time, right? Theyre going to have a good time.  But, because Im going to be working for you, Im not going to have time to go play golf and...  Believe me, folks.  But I had a feeling.
I said I think U.K.s going for independence because they dont want to have people pouring into their country that they dont know where they are, who they are. They have enough. They have enough. And theyve had enough.
And they voted and it was a shock. And you know what, theyre better off. And you watch, other countries in the European Union are going to follow. Because they were forced to take people and now its getting to be catastrophic proportions.
And you watch what happens to Angela Merkel, who I always thought of as a very good leader, until she did this. I dont know what went wrong with her. I dont know what went wrong. Angela, what happened? What happened Angela?  And you take a look at whats going on in Germany, the real facts, OK.
I have friends that live in Germany, for years they were so proud. They were saying this is the country, Donald, this is so great, this is the -- people now tell me theyre going to leave Germany. Leave. I said what are you talking about? Were going to leave.
They take in millions of people and they dont know anything about and whats going on, you know the terms of whats going on. The women have heard all about whats going on, OK? Let me tell you folks, we are allowing thousands and thousands of people into our country. Ive spoken to the best law enforcement people that we have, who are great people, and they said theres no way to properly vet these people. Theres no way.D.
Because we dont know where they really come from, they have no paperwork so what they do is they make up paperwork. Everybody makes up paperwork. Remember when they stole our passport machine? Remember? They have a passport machine thats better than the stuff we have. OK? These are smart people by the way.
This is not -- these are smart people. These are very smart people. And I have a bigger heart than anybody in this room or as big. We wanna do safe zones in Syria, I will get the Gulf States who are not doing much, believe me.
The Gulf States have nothing but money. Im gonna get them to pay. We are $19 trillion; were not paying for it. Were not pay -- theyre gonna pay, they are gonna pay.
We are gonna get the Gulf States to pay for it. Theyre gonna pay. Dont forget, without us the Gulf States wont exist. They wont exist.
So were gonna get the Gulf States to pay.  And were gonna be the smart country again. But were not gonna let this happen, where all of a sudden our cafes start blowing up, our movie theaters start blowing up, full of people and all of the other things that youve been seeing all over the world, I mean all over the world. Who wouldve believed that horrible scene in Nice, who wouldve believed a think like thats even possible? Just driving a truck down, killing everybody, running all over everybody.
You know what they were screaming? They were screaming something that they always seem to scream OK? And Ill tell you what, its not going to happen here. Were going to be very, very tough, and very, very smart.  And we can be, folks -- we can be the stupid people and we can be the politically correct people and guess what? Were not gonna have much of a country left. Believe me, OK?  So that we have to have it, so look.
Stop with it. You know a lot of bad numbers right? A lot of bad numbers. Hillary said she wants to keep it the same but shes gonna change, you noticed shes saying I wanna keep it the same but we gotta change. First of all, she cant change.
Shes -- shes been doing it for 30 years. You know II say if she wants to change, why didnt she change? Shes been doing this a long time. Her husband signed the worst trade deal in the history of the world, probably, and I really mean that, Im not exaggerating: NAFTA. The worst -- now, they wanna do TPP, Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Its going to be as bad as NAFTA if not, worse. Numerous countries, documents that are 5,000 pages long. Our people havent even read the documents, OK? I wanna do individual country, I like trade. Individual countries boom, boom, boom, if they do a bad job with us -- you have to see what this TPP looks like with the lines.
Line, line, lines all over the place, looks like a jigsaw puzzle. Simple, simple deals are tough enough, complicated enough simple. Boom, individual countries. Were rewarding people that have treated us badly and theyre going in with people that have treated us well meaning countries.
I want individual countries. And if they do something bad or they devalue their currency so that our companies can compete because youre losing all your jobs, I mean I just left Pennsylvania, I just left Ohio, I just -- Im going to be very soon in Michigan. Upstate New York is a disaster area, I mean you look at these -- you look at these big, beautiful plants that are just rotting. Theyre just rotting.
I flew into Harrisburg, Pennsylvania yesterday and I looked down and I looked at -- it look like a war zone where you have these massive plants. And you could see 25 years ago vibrance -- families being taken care of, work, education, healthcare, people working. Its all in Mexico, now. The businesses have moved to Mexico and other places.
But between China. Mexico, others, theyve taken our businesses. Vietnam, very big right now, really taking over. I mean theyre doing a great job for them not for us.
Vietnams a hot one right now, take a look. But were not gonna let that happen, were not gonna let it happen. Were gonna be smart. When a company moves and wants to move as an example to Mexico were gonna wish them luck.
But when they wanna sell their product back into this country were gonna say sorry but you have a 35 percent tax to pay to get your product back in and when we do that theyre not gonna move, theyre not moving. Theyre not going to move.  Because we will have taken the economics of moving" away from this country. And Ive watched for years Im doing the ultimate, Im saying you make a product outside of the country and when you leave and when you fire all of our people and youre going to now make that product in -- as an example Mex -- no, there are other places -- but when that product comes across the border youre going to pay a 35 percent tax.
And heres whats going to happen. For the most part theyre not going to move, OK. I think very few are going to move, because youve taken the whole point out. But theyre not going to move.
Number one very important, theyre not going to move, and if they do move, were going to make a fortune OK. So its OK. In fact sometimes you say please move, please move, wed like you to -- wed like you send plenty of product in here. When China devalues its currency, theyre making it impossible for our companies to compete.
But China doesnt want -- and Im very close China, I have the biggest bank in the World as a tenant of mine in New York, the biggest in the world a Chinese bank. Dont worry about that baby I love babies.  I love babies. I hear that baby crying and I like -- I like it, what a baby.
What a beautiful baby, dont worry, dont worry. The moms running around like -- dont worry about it, you know. Its young and beautiful, and healthy and thats what we want. OK, but look -- look China, when they devalue -- when China devalues its currency they take our guts out.
And they do it so often, they do it so often. Theyre constantly devaluing their currency. And they always wait until like its a bad time, like we have a problem with Iraq, we have a problem with Afghanistan, every time we have like a big problem they always devalue. And a year and a half ago they devalued the biggest devaluation theyve done in 20 years.
The biggest in 20 years. And I said man how do they get away -- but we had a problem -- we were doing other things, OK. So when China does that we have fight back. Now heres how you fight back, because we cant fight back any other way.
We have the piggy bank, they have ripped us to shreds, ripped us absolutely to shreds, actually I was only kidding you can get the baby out of here.  Thats all right, dont worry. I think she really believed me that I love having a baby crying while Im speaking, thats OK. People dont understand, thats OK.
But so you have a situation where a great country like China which is a massive -- which has really taken over now if you look. You look at the numbers, you know a year ago they passed us. If you would have said 10 years ago, 15 years ago that China would be passing us I would have said its absolutely -- anybody would have said its impossible. Weve allowed them to pass us.
Now when we have our manufacturers wanting to go to China, they cant get in, number one. Number two if they do get in they have to pay a massive tax. When Chinese companies want to sell to us, no tax, come on in fellas, were stupid, were stupid. Then they devalue.D.
I had a friend, he was catching up with China, and he was really starting to compete. Hes a very, very close -- conscious guy, it was hard for him, but hes a really good manufacturer, and then all of a sudden they did a massive devaluation -- boom -- and hes back to ground one. Its like you know you take two steps forward, three steps back. Guess what happened to him? The guys phenomenal he cant get his product into China.
When he finally starts to be competitive, they devalued again. And in TPP -- now China is not in TPP -- but it works the same thing with other countries. Their single greatest toom is devaluation of the currency -- of their currency. We dont even have a clause in the agreement to cover it, okay? And because of the complexity -- 5,000 pages, nobodys going to read it and if you want to get out you cant because theres so many countries involved.
So I say One Please be advised...  Please be advised we are hereby terminating your agreement with the United States of America.  Because you cheated, you cheated.  You cheated on us and heres whats going to happen, now were are only dealing with one country.
We no longer have to worry about you know lets bring this country to the tribunal of all the others countries -- nice and simple folks its very complicated to start off with nice and simple. So out of the 5,000 pages, Ill bet we dont have one politician in Washington thats read even a page. And these other countries, smart as hell, smart countries by the way -- these are smart countries. Theyve read every word, every comma, every period, every paragraph, every sentence. Off Microphone, someone says "They didnt read Obamacare"] They didnt read Obamacare, shes right. Well theres an example, thank you very much I was just about to say that.  No but Obamacare is a great example. Obmacare was like 2,500 pages, not one politician read it and now were stuck with it.
But dont worry were going to repeal it and replace it. But were stuck with it.  It should have died a couple of times, it should have died by our Supreme Court except one of our Republican presidents appointed a man, who kept Obamacare going. Shockingly right? And not one legal scholar can figure It out.
It should have died the first time and it should have died the second time and we still have it. And that was a Republican appointee ok and speaking of appointees -- because theres been a few beauties -- speaking of appointees I am going to appoint great justices of the Supreme Court. Great.  And... Applause] You know I actually told a group, last night in Pennsylvania, I told a group, I said -- and we had such a crowd, we had -- we had thousands of people -- like outside today. I mean you dont believe it, outside today, seriously we cant use these rooms anymore this is bigger than its ever been. Its a movement we have going -- we have a moment going -- but outside...  And I told this group I said This big You know why? Justices of the Supreme Court if they pick -- if they pick judges, were going to end up with another Venezuela except just a bigger version, its going to be a disaster for this country.D.
And Ive already chosen 11 that were vetted and that are so good -- these are great justices. Federalist Society looked at them, Heritage looked at them, people that were -- are really highly respected and Im going to pick from that group and we already have one before we start, Judge Scalia. And I want to get as many as I can in the mold of Judge Scalia because...  Thats where were looking.
Thats where were looking, Justice Scalia, good man. And who knew that was going to happen? That was a surprise, people kept talking about different names but they didnt think him. And all of a sudden hes gone. That was shocking to people.
So you never know whats going to happen. And Ill tell you, this could be the presidency with the most Supreme Court picks of any presidency in history. Youll probably have three, you could have four and you could even have five. Look, we have one before we even start, right? Judge Scalia.
But you could even have five and can you imagine if Hillary Clinton picks five super-libs because what she is, is shes being pushed around by the Bernie Sanders crowd. Many of whom, are going to vote for us because of our trade policies, OK because they understand that trade is killing our country.  All right?  So, I want to go over a couple of facts before I do though, I want to just say this. Look, we have a movement going.
This is beyond anything that anybodys ever seen. Commentators are saying on television, people that hate me, are saying on television that they have never seen anything like this, they call it the phenomenon. Its a phenomenon. They have never -- our crowds are much bigger than Bernies were.
And Bernie did good, Bernie was second, I will say that. Far greater. Hillary, last night in Harrisburg, where I had, I dont know 12,000 people, we had to send away thousands. Hillary had 800 people, OK? Now I dont know what it means, I mean maybe it doesnt mean anything.
I think it should mean something, I think it should mean something.  I mean when you have crowds that are many, many times the size of your opponent, I would think that it would mean something. But we have these massive crowds. I mean I felt so badly about when I went through and Im waving to everybody but theyre all standing out there and I feel guilty about it.
But heres the story, we have a movement going, its an incredible movement. Its a movement like they say theyve never seen in this country before. And I say it a lot because I have a lot of respect for him, Bill OReilly. He said its the single greatest phenomenon.
He called it the Trump phenomenon. Its the single greatest phenomenon, politically speaking, that he has ever seen in his lifetime. I mean thats -- you know, guys seen a lot of stuff, right?  And Bret Baier said it. Bret Baier, good guy, said it.
And Brit Hume who said it. He doesnt like me too much but he said that, or something similar. And people have said this, that what we are doing is one of the great political phenomena of all time but very importantly, its one of the great movements of all time. Weve got to finish it off.
Weve got to finish it off.  Weve got to beat...  Weve got to beat a dishonest machine, totally dishonest machine. You know as an example how Hillary got away with what she got away with recently.
How do you get away with it? Everybody thought, oh wow shes guilty. However, now what she got away with was a disgrace, honestly. A disgrace to our country, but she got away with it. And who would think that that could have happened? And then on top of it she lies on Sunday saying, oh I was just actually fine.
I did everything fine. And that was not said. You know it was said, very embarrassingly. Nobody could believe that happened.
That whole thing was incredible, but we have to learn from it.D. Its a crooked system. Its a rigged system. Were running against a rigged system and were running against a very dishonest media.
The medias very dishonest. Its very, very dishonest.  What they dont take -- Patty Smith -- when they dont take Pat, whose an unbelievable woman and they give her virtually no air time, and they give other people unbelievable amounts of air. Its just so unfair, its so unfair, were running against a rigged press.
Were running against dishonest people.  OK, really dishonest people.  And -- and hey look it was rigged against Bernie Sanders, you could see that from all of those emails. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, no no, but you could see it, it was a rigged deal.
He never had a chance, the guy works so hard, and now hes got buyers remorse. You know you look at him, if he would have done nothing, if he would have just gone home and gone to sleep he would have been so -- because he made a deal with the devil, he made a deal with the devil. And he made a bad deal, and then she picks a Vice President thats the exact opposite of everything that Bernie represents. Now I dont agree with what Bernie represents, but I mean, honestly, it was almost 50 percent of their party.
You would have thought she would have given him a little bit of a bone. She gave him nothing, she gave him nothing. So we have to get everybody out, Loudon County is so important. And really Im a big employer here, Im a big, big employer here. Applause] And -- and everybody in this room -- everybody in this room knows how great that project is and how successful its been because many of you -- whose been there, how many people have been there? Its one of the great projects in the country, all along the Potomac River, one of the great -- thank you -- one of the great projects in the country. So lets go over a couple of numbers because you have to see this to really believe it. And by the way, Hillary Clinton has not had a news conference I think its in 242 days. She doesnt do news conferences because she cant.
Because for a number of reasons, but number one shes so dishonest, she doesnt want the people peppering her with questions, so she doesnt do news conferences, its a disgrace. I think its 242 days, you know what that is -- and she probably wont have one, maybe she wont have one. Maybe well force her to have one, but she probably wont have one. So listen, since 2000 the number of unemployed people in Virginia has doubled.
Now these are right out of the book so, statisticians OK. Virginia has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. Signed by Bill Clinton, one of the worst ever, OK. Hillary rammed through the job killing trade deal with South Korea in 2011.
That South Korean deal is a disaster for us. But look at the people that give her money, and look how their involved in that deal. The US trade deficit with TPP members --- these are the members going into the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which Obama wants, which Hillary wanted, she called it the gold standard, but when she heard me talking about it she said she didnt want it. But as youre governor said, Terry McAuliffe, Governor of Virginia, he said dont worry, dont worry, let her get elected and shell approve it.
Shell make a couple of minor changes, shell approve it.D. This was said, then they backpedaled, well he doesnt speak -- let me tell you Terry McAuliffe knows her better than Bill knows her. Terry knows her better than anybody, your Governor, he made this statement. OK, all right, so heres a couple of things that are just sort of amazing.
President Obama has doubled the national debt since hes been in office. U.S. trade deficit in goods reached nearly $800 billion. In other words, we trade with people.
You know, its funny when I want to make good trade deals the press says oh, hes not a free trader. Im a great free trader. I like free trade. But I like smart deals.
Somebody said well, then what do you call yourself? Because I know free trade, I know fair trade, I know every form of trade ever thought up by man. Believe me, its meaningless. So they said what are your policies? I said my policies are very simple, I wanna make great deals for our country OK? Very simple.  You can call it fair trade, free trade or any other of the other 10 ten names.
I want great deals for our country. And I was endorsed by Carl Icahn some of the greatest business leaders in the world. And we have to use our great business people to negotiate the deals. Because were using political hacks to make deals and its a joke.
The Chinese people look at us like we are the dumbest people. They are using their smartest, their brightest from the time theyre three years old, you know they have like a pyramid, right? Boom, boom, boom, they use the guys right on the top. And they walk in and deal with our clowns and they say I cant believe weve gotten away with this. For years and years and years, weve rebuilt China with our trade.
Weve rebuilt China. We have so much power over China and if they dont behave we throw a 10 percent tax on goods coming in from China. We will make a fortune. And you know what? Theyre gonna send the same goods.
Then what are they going to say, were not gonna send because were not gonna pay a 10 percent tax? But when they raise their currency -- when they do things with their currency, they manipulate. And they knock out their currency. And they devalue their currency and they do all their masters, theyre grand masters at currency and a currency manipulation. We have the ultimate -- we say thank you very much.
Now, just so you understand, when we send things to China they charge us a tax. So people would say Donald Trump is not a free trader. Im a free trader. But its gotta be a two-way street, right? I mean its gotta be a two-way street.
Theyre killing us.  $23.8 million Americans in their prime earning years are out of the labor force right now. In the last seven years, another 14 million people have left the workforce OK? Nearly 4 in 10 African American children are living in poverty while 58 percent of African American youth are not employed, OK? Two million more Latinos are in poverty today than when President Obama took office. Now, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.
Were gonna bring jobs back.  Thank you, thats very nice. Were gonna bring jobs back. Thats why we had a very good poll recently with the Hispanics.
And it was an amazing poll. And you know -- way up from what people thought. Because people want jobs. And by the way, the Latinas, the Hispanics, they dont want -- and you understand this, they dont want people pouring into our country taking their jobs, taking their houses.
They want -- they wanna have security, they really want the wall. They want the wall.  Were gonna have a strong border and were going have the wall. Were going have the wall. Applause] Oh were going build a wall, dont even think about it. Were going build a wall and you know -- you know and I say it and I mean it, Mexicos paying for the wall folks.  You know, if Mexico wanted to, they could stop all of the problems that are coming into our country, including the drugs. New Hampshire -- which I won -- I got to know the people so well up there.
Whats your number one problem? Heroin coming from the southern border. And I said doesnt make sense, you go to South Carolina, North Carolina. No matter where. Here, you go no matter where, we have drugs pouring into our country.
We could stop it. You see, our politicians dont wanna stop it because there are people out there that make a lot of money with that and they take care of the politicians. They dont wanna stop it. They could stop it.
But Mexico could stop it, without even us, 16,500 border patrol agents endorsed me recently, OK?  Sheriff Joe, endorsed me. Sheriff Joe Arpaio.  From Arizona, which is great. Were gonna get it going.
But were gonna build a wall, Mexicos gonna pay for the wall and some politician came up to me. Number one, you cant build a wall. I said really, China just build a 13 -- 2,000 years ago -- built a 13,000 --- China built a 13,000 mile long 2,000 years ago. We have 1,000 miles that we need.
Its 2,000 miles but we need 1,000 you have natural barriers. We need 1,000 miles. So China can do 13,000 mils 2,000 years ago -- and thats the serious wall by the way in case anybody hasnt seen it. And we cant do -- we cant do a wall thats 1,000 miles and we have Caterpillar tractors.
And were gonna use Caterpillar, by the way. Were not going with Komatsu. Were not going with Komatsu.  So here is one of the most depressing stats.
According to the second quarter GDP report, you saw this yesterday, the economy only grew at 1.2 percent. This is the third straight quarter that the economy has grown under two percent and is the single weakest -- weakest of any economic expansion in more than 70 years. So we have the weakest expansion in 70 years and its going back -- now its going down because the numbers are getting worse and worse all the time. If they get real bad I hope it happens fast so I dont have to -- theyll all blame me.
Youll end up winning and your first day the economy crashes because of some incompetent people before me well, were gonna straighten up. But well certainly blame them. OK, were going to blame them.  No but think of it, the weakest in 70 years, 70 years.
I mean its terrible. Now, heres another one. U.S. home ownership, the rate fell, of ownership, to 62.9 percent in the second quarter.
The lowest rate of home ownership in more than 50 years, terrible. Did Hillary mention any of these facts in her optimistic speech?  OK and were not talking about the shooting of the police which by the way is at massive levels, massive levels. Were not talking about crime. In major cities, our crime is going through the roof.
You look at whats going on in some of these cities, crime is up numbers that you wouldnt even believe. They dont talk about that, they talk about how everythings wonderful. Look, with Hillary youre gonna have four more years of Obama and you know what? If you have four more years of Obama our countries finished. Its finished. Applause] Heres one thats an amazing -- heres one thats amazing. Household incomes are more than $4,000 lower than their levels in the year 2000. Think of it, household -- youre making $4,000 less now than you did 16, 17 years ago.D. Another one thats very common and out there, people -- many people in this room -- but people are making, in terms of real wages, less money today than they made 18 years ago.
And theyre working two jobs in many cases and thats because of Obamacare. Because Obamacare, it makes sense for employees to do part time workers. So youll have a worker whos worked at a company for years and all of a sudden the boss goes up to him to say I hate to do it, with tears, and says Ive got to make you a part time employee. Because of Obamacare.
Its forced people to be part time employees. Its a horrible thing thats going on in this country. And you didnt hear that in Hillary Clintons speech. You didnt hear that, you didnt hear that.
You heard all is slowing stuff. Its a disaster. And then when you look at other countries, how theyve built up their military -- look at Russia. How theyve built up their military.
Take a look at what theyve done. Take a look at what theyve done on the nuclear weapons front. How they built up their military and how were so far behind and our equipment is obsolete in many cases, and we have jet fighters that are so old that they have to go to graveyards, airplane graveyards and museums to get parts for current jet fighters. And we have our pilots, our wonderful, incredible pilots saying it didnt use to be this way.
And now theyre older and theyre going to leave and theyre going to retire and they dont want to stay. Theyre so depressed at whats happened. But theyre fighting, you saw the report, you probably all saw it. They had documentaries on television about how old our aircraft is in our services.
And you have other countries, you look at China, what theyre doing with their massive, with their massive installations that theyre building in oceans. South China Sea, massive, we would never even think about it. No, weve got to get smart folks, weve got to get smart. Were falling way behind. Applause] Were falling. And I can keep reading this stuff, its just point after point, youre doing lousy over here by the way, hate to tell you, but point heres recent factory closings in Virginia, all right? Right? Kennametal, Ball Corporation, closed. Kennametal closed. Sandvik closed.
Moved their jobs to Mexico. Lets see, Mexico, Mexico, Mexico, Mexico, yes. Smith Foods Inc. closed its plant, 400 workers gone.
Anybody used to work for Smithfield?  Thats true. I -- its true. Stanley Furniture closed its plant in Vista. Laid off 400 workers, closed its plant.
Moved their jobs to China and Canada. North Carolina has lost so many jobs. Pennsylvania has lost tremendous numbers of jobs. Ohio has lost 34 percent of their manufacturing jobs since Chinas entrance into the World Trade Organization.
Folks, what are we doing? What are we doing? Are we -- were being led by stupid people, folks.  And people that are controlled.  People that are controlled by special interests and lobbyists so heres the story. So weve got to build up our military, weve got to make great trade deals.
I told you that no more, when our companies leave, they want to -- they think theyre going to leave and sell us back-product from a different company with other employees from other nations, not going to happen. Not going to happen. I mean its going to happen, but theyre going to pay for it. Theres going to be consequence.
Theyre going to pay a tax, very simple. Now a lot of people think Im not conservative because I want them to pay a tax. I think theyre not conservative because theyre stupid. OK, theyre stupid.  And by the way, its 100 percent foolproof.
Were not talking about oh, maybe it will work. Can you imagine they used to go around and offer companies loans? And its not even funny. Well give you an interest free loan if you stay. And a couple of companies took the money and then left because they forgot to say you had to stay.
The lawyers didnt do too good a job. But look, look, we have to be the smart people again. We have to be -- and we dont have much of a choice because we are losing so many of our jobs and we cant take our factories and keep taking our factories and converting them into nursing homes. You know nursing homes are wonderful, but we have to make things again.
We need jobs, we need jobs. Its wonderful. Nursing homes is wonderful. But we need jobs. Applause] I see things happen where theres a couple of beautiful jobs up in New England, theyve taken an old factory, theyve converted it into -- and its all fine. But we cant do that. We need manufacturing jobs. We need the income, we need the productivity, we need the future.
We -- as you stand here right now, there are companies negotiating from Virginia, right here. Theyre negotiating to leave Virginia and move to Mexico and other places, as you stand here. Some of the people in this room work for companies that are right now under negotiation to get out. If I get in, that ends.
Hillary wont do anything about it, she talks, she knows her way now, shes talking about trade. Did you notice two days ago she said, Ive been talking about, were going to re-negotiate NAFTA. And if they dont give us a great deal and if we dont re- negotiate a great deal, were terminating NAFTA, were getting out and well bring our jobs back a different way, OK? So...  The other day, now that was like, a horrible thing to say.
Two days ago, Hillary Clinton said, we are going to start re-negotiating our trade deals. She cant do it. Number one, if she wanted to she can, but they wouldnt let her. Those people that put up all that money for her, those 20 people and theres plenty of more of them, they wont let her do it.
She cant do it, if she wanted to, she cant do it. So shes just kidding all of you. So were going to make America great again.  Were going to build up our military, so depleted.
Were going to take care of our veterans, who have been treated horribly.  Were going to make phenomenal trade deals, were going to make trade deals that bring jobs back, not trade deals where we lose our businesses and our jobs.  Were going to have strong borders, were going to have the wall, Mexicos going to pay for the wall, and were going to have people come into our country but theyre going to come into our country legally, legally.  Were going to appoint great Justices of the United States Supreme Court. Applause] Were going to repeal and replace Obamacare.  We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.  And were going to start winning again, folks. Were going to win on every front.
I want to thank everybody in Loudoun County, I love this place, Im here a lot. I want to thank everybody. I want to thank everybody in the state of Virginia. Virginia, we are going to be here so much youre going to be so sick of me, youre going to say, please keep him out of here, well vote for you, but please keep him out.
Im going to be in Virginia a lot, were going to be here a lot.  And just so you know, we are going to be proud of our country again. Were going to put America first. We are going to start winning again.
