Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Novi, MI|September 30, 2016
Wow. Wow. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. It is so great to be back in Michigan.
A state Ive come to know and love during this campaign. You know, we won Michigan, and that was a great, big, fat, beautiful victory. You know that right?
And Ive been talking about Michigan for a long time. We cant let them take your car industry out or your industry out of your state any longer. Not going to happen.
Im going to fight so hard for all of you, and Im going to bring back the jobs that have been stripped away from you and from our country.
In 39 days, 39 days, can you imagine? This started off -- were a long ways away. And some people didnt give us a good chance. They said, Mr. Trump, the other day one of the biggest people in that business, the very dishonest press business...
They said, Mr. Trump, when you started off, you have to tell me the truth. Did you really think youd be here? I said, what the hell do you think Im doing this for? Right?
No, we expected to be here. And were all here together. Its a movement. And believe me, were all here together. Were going to take our country back.
Were going to win the state of Michigan. Were going to win the White House. And its going to be an awfully good November 8th. That evening is going to be a celebration.
Were going to take on the special interests, the lobbyists, and the powerful politicians that have stolen your jobs through theft and incompetence. Theyve stolen your wealth. Theyve taken your middle class. Were going to take on the arrogant, corrupt corporate media that have enabled the global theft of American prosperity.
A theft that has left behind crumbling schools, roads, bridges, and a totally depleted military. We have the greatest people in the world in our military. Were going to rebuild our military. This is when we need it.
Its time, by the way, to rebuild Detroit. Were going to rebuild Detroit. Its time to rebuild Michigan and were not letting them take your jobs out of Michigan any longer.
And its time to rebuild the United States of America. Were going to do it. Our country is going to be greater than ever before. Were going to be the smart country again.
Hillary Clinton has made a living raking in donations from special interests that have raided our factories and ripped the jobs right out of Michigan and every other state.
Thats how she gets rich, by taking your jobs and your money away from you and away from your state.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Thats why Hillary Clinton, if she ever got the chance, would 100 percent approve the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
The deal she lied about the other night, when I said she called it the gold standard. She said no. Guess what? She called it the gold standard. And Lester Holt didnt correct her. I wonder why.
The Trans-Pacific Partnership will economically devastate Michigan, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and so many other states all across this country. It will be devastating also for Ohio. Hillary Clintons donors want the TPP, and their wish will be her command. Thats what it is.
The special interests pay her for speeches. And shes not a good speaker. Not a good speaker. They pay her a lot of money. You know, we have thousands of people here today. There are thousands and thousands of people outside trying to get in. Thousands.
And theyre coming. And, in fact, I was going to ask you, should we hold it up for a couple of hours, let everyone pour in? You know, theyre all checked. The answer is no, right? Thank you. No, theyll get in. They pay her foundation. They pay her husband. In return, they get your jobs. Like Ive been saying all week, when it comes to Hillary Clinton, all you have to do is remember these words: Follow the money. Thats good.
Thats become very popular, I will say. Hillary Clinton praised or pushed TPP on 45 separate occasions. Her close associate and confidante, Governor Terry McAuliffe, said shed pass it, dont worry. Her husband talks it up. Everyone knows shes for it, because she doesnt believe in protecting American jobs or American sovereignty. She doesnt believe it.
Hillary Clinton only believes in protecting her special interests and her donors. Of the 262 companies that lobbied for the passage of TPP, 82, or nearly 1 in 3, donated between $21 million and $67 million to the Clinton Foundation. Think about it.
Nine companies that lobbied for the passage of TPP paid Hillary Clinton $2.7 million for paid speeches. Who would want to hear Hillary Clintons peak and pay her $200,000, $300,000, $400,000, $500,000? Who? You think so?
You know, so were going to have $20,000 people here easy, including outside much more than that. If she came here tomorrow, if she got 500 people, seriously, I think it would be a shock. Right? It would be a shock.
Three TPP member countries gave between $6 million and $15 million. Think of that. At least four lobbyists who are actively lobbying for TPP passage have raised more than $800,000 for her campaign. On November 8th, we are going to end Clinton corruption. Weve had enough.
And were going to do something that has been a long, long time in coming. We are going to put America first. We are going to put America first.
Hillary Clinton is an insider fighting only for herself and for her donors. Im an outsider fighting for you. We have a movement like theyve never seen in this country before. The corrupt media, which is totally corrupt -- these people back there, totally corrupt...
Working along with the political establishment and the establishment is panicking, because they know this is awfully tough to stop whats happening right now, folks. Awfully tough.
The news anchors and the donors and the lobbyists who are used to getting their way are trying to do everything they can to help crooked Hillary Clinton and cling to their power and their prestige and their money. The arrogant political class doesnt believe in protecting jobs and wages for Americans.
You know, we have many people in the audience -- and all over the country -- that made more money in real wages 18 and 20 years ago than theyre making now. And now because of Obamacare and other reasons, theyre being forced to work two jobs, sometimes three jobs. So theyre getting older. Theyre working harder. And theyre being paid less. Not good.
The only thing I can say is that Im getting older and Im working harder, also, OK? So...
Im putting myself in your category. Its true.
USA! USA! USA!
Thank you. Oh, thats so true, though, isnt it? The special interests dont believe in secure borders and strong walls. The Washington and Wall Street insiders dont believe in hiring more police, producing more American energy, or giving school choice to poor children trapped in failing schools. And we are, by the way, going to end Common Core and bring education local.
For decades, weve talked about the corruption and incompetence and failures of our leaders. In 2016 -- its a long awaited chance to deliver the change that youve been waiting for, for a long time, and to hold our politicians accountable. If you do this one simple thing, you can deliver justice for every single person who has been wronged by the system. On November 8th, show up and vote.
Trump! Trump! Trump!
Show up and vote, folks. Show up and vote. If you are so sick, if you get the worst report you could possibly get for the doctor, if the doctor says, Im sorry
No, we dont want that to happen. We dont want that to happen. When you cast that ballot, just picture a Wall Street boardroom filled with the special interests who have been bleeding your country and your city and every place else, and imagine the look on their faces when you tell them youre fired. Fired.
And were going to tell millions and millions of unemployed Americans my favorite two words: Youre hired.
When we get it going, folks, millions of jobs are going to come pouring back into our country. Were going to reverse the trend. Right now, we have a superhighway. It goes in one direction: Out of our country. Our jobs are gone. Our moneys gone. Our wealth is gone. We owe $20 trillion. Obama has doubled the debt, doubled it, in his term in office, $20 trillion.
And we havent done anything. Our roads are bad. Our schools are bad. Our airports are bad. Our hospitals are bad. Our bridges, our tunnels, theyre all falling apart. You know, its one thing if we would have spent the money and fixed our country. Weve spent $6 trillion in the Middle East. We could have rebuilt our country twice.
Now the media doesnt want to talk about Hillary Clinton and her corruption. So were going to spell it out for them today.
The large corporations who support terrible trade deals that ship your jobs overseas and out of our country, theyre donating to Hillary Clinton. Follow the money. The Wall Street investors who have rigged the regulations against the middle class, theyre donating to Hillary Clinton. Follow the money.
The wealthy donors who want to shut down American energy, theyre donating to Hillary Clinton. Follow the money. The special interests who want open borders are donating to Hillary Clinton. Definitely follow the money.
In her campaign for president, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million in contributions from Wall Street and hedge funds. And by the way...
By the way, Im spending a lot of money on my campaign. And why isnt she spending some money on hers? Im spending $100 million. You know what Im spending? I think Ill be over $100 million.
But you know whats nice? When they call me and they say, Mr. President
The only one that Im working for is you. Thats the only one. You watch.
So many things are done adverse to the country, and Ive spent a tremendous -- tens and tens of millions of dollars on the primaries and now on the general election. And Im very proud to have done it, I will tell you. And I dont know to this extent if its ever been done before. Certainly not recently. But Im very proud to have done it, because were going to maintain our independence.
We have millions and millions of dollars coming in from small donors, average -- like $61 a shot. And thats really helping to fund the campaign, also. But these are people who are investing in our country. These are great, great people. Theyre investing in our country.
So Hillary and Bill were paid $150 million for speeches since Bill Clinton left the Oval Office, $150 million.
Did they get their moneys worth? Well, maybe they did. Not from the speech. The same groups are paying Bill and Hillary for their speeches, these were the groups that were lobbying in many cases the federal government. Im shocked.
Twenty-two groups paid Bill Clinton for speeches, lobbied the State Department, while Hillary was secretary of state. Shocking. Favors and access were granted to those who wrote checks. She put the office of secretary of state up for sale and she never, ever got the chance, and she will get the chance if we dont get out to vote. She will get the chance. And we cant let that happen. Because if she gets the chance, she will put the Oval Office up for sale like she always does.
Remember, folks, shes been doing this for 30 years and she -- she just doesnt produce. She deleted and bleached 33,000 e-mails after a congressional subpoena. You cant do that.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
After the subpoena. How about this? You get a federal subpoena, you get a subpoena from Congress, I mean, how high can it get? To give your e-mails, to give your papers, to give everything. It isnt before you get the subpoena. This is after you get the subpoena. And after you get the subpoena, you delete and bleach, a process nobody ever heard of -- who heard of that in this room? Did anybody ever hear of it? They call it bleaching. They call it acid washing. And a lot of people dont do it, because its supposed to be very expensive. But nobody heard of it. So she gets the subpoena. She doesnt like it. She says, in my opinion, or somebody does, but she says, Delete all of my e-mails! Delete them!" And then she said
She said there were wedding and yoga class tweets. I give five for the wedding and three for the yoga class, but what about the rest? In addition, she got rid of 13 phones that were missing or gone. And several were destroyed by a hammer. Whoever destroyed your phone with a hammer? Is there anybody?
Theres one person -- what business are you in?
Foreign enemies with easy access to hack -- and, believe me, shes vulnerable, and she makes us vulnerable, because foreign enemies -- you look at her server, and theyre probably hacking her all over the place. Unfortunately, maybe well find out at a later date. Lies to Congress under oath. She lies to Congress. How many times did she lie to Congress? And then the media protects her, and they dont talk about that.
And if Im a little bit off, Trump lies
And how about her people and representatives taking the Fifth Amendment and her ringleaders getting immunity deals, five deals, five? Five immunity deals. We call them now the FBI immunity five.
So listen to this. Listen to this. Heres my question for Hillary Clinton. Can you promise that not one of the five people who were granted criminal immunity will ever be allowed to serve in a Clinton administration if that ever happens? Oh, would that be bad.
Lets see what happens. And heres the demand Im making today to President Obama.
Mr. President, will you pledge not to issue a pardon to Hillary Clinton and her coconspirators for their many crimes against our country and against society itself? Will you make that pledge?
No one is above the law. Clinton and her cronies will say anything, do anything, lie about anything to keep their grip on power, to keep their control over our country. Remember the Clinton pardon of fugitive -- and this was a serious fugitive -- Marc Rich in exchange for unknown and undisclosed amounts of money? You remember that? Marc Rich. Famous Marc Rich. People couldnt believe it.
The American people have had it with years or decades of Clinton corruption and scandals. Always the same thing. Whitewater, the cattle. Remember the cattle? I think she had the greatest return on a cattle investment in the history of the cattle world. Guys that did it all their lives, they said, wow, she must know a lot about cattle.
The people of this country are tired of the lies. Theyre tired of trivial politics. Theyre tired of being talked down to, looked down upon, and treated like second-class citizens.
This will finally be the year that the American people say, Enough is enough." ""his will finally be the year "
Hillary Clinton has been a disaster for so many communities, but especially for the African-American communities. I dont think African-Americans are going to come out and vote for Clinton. Theyre too smart, and they know they are being used. Theyre tired of them.
They also know from tremendous past experience that shell do nothing for them once the election is over. She never does, and that will never change.
Many of them will not forget her calling young African-American men super predators.
Super predator. To the African-American community, let me ask you this question. Are you better off than you were eight years ago? No. If not, why not give Donald Trump a chance? I will fix it.
I will bring back jobs. Ill bring back your education, which is a total disaster in the inner cities. And Im going to bring back safe neighborhoods.
If you keep voting for the same people, you will keep getting the exact same results. Look at what the Democrats have done to Detroit. Half of Detroit residents are unable to work. Nearly 40 percent of the city lives in poverty. Its the second-most dangerous city in America according to the FBI. This is the legacy of the policies embraced by crooked Hillary Clinton. A Trump administration will bring prosperity to all of our people. My economic agenda can be summed up with three very beautiful words: Jobs, jobs, jobs. Were bringing our jobs back.
Were going to pass the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. And by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes. Every wasteful and unnecessary regulation will be immediately eliminated. Theyre choking our businesses and stopping our jobs.
We will unleash the power of American energy. The catastrophe known as Obamacare will be repealed and replaced.
And the disastrous trade deals, like NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, that have caused so much pain in Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania and everywhere in this country will be renegotiated and well be bring back your auto manufacturing business like youve never, ever seen it before.
Michigan has lost more than 1 in 3 of its manufacturing jobs since the twin disasters of NAFTA and Chinas entrance into the WTO, another Bill Clinton disaster. Before NAFTA went into effect, there were 280,000 autoworkers in Michigan. Today, that number is only 160,000, and believe me, its going down and going down fast. And after the election, if somebody else should win, youre going to see really big reductions in those numbers. I can promise you that, because thats what theyre going to do.
And Ive been talking about Michigan. I was honored here years ago -- and we set the all-time record years ago, long before I ever thought I was going to be doing this -- whoever thought I was going to run for office? I was going to be a politician. Cant believe -- somebody said, Donald, youre a politician. I said, please, I dont want to hear that. But whoever thought?
But long before I thought about doing this, I was honored in Michigan, and I talked about your car industries moving out. And had I run for office then and won, you would have double and triple the number of workers in your car industry, your automobile industry. Ill guarantee you that. But well get them back anyway.
Ford just announced that its moving its small car production to Mexico.
So it used to be that the cars were made in Flint and you couldnt drink the water in Mexico. Today, the cars are made in Mexico and you cant drink the water in Flint.
Thats whats happened to our country. Hillary Clinton also gave us the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, which has been a disaster. Its cost our country another 100,000 jobs. And Hillary opposed the Korea deal when she was running for president in 2007. She campaigned right here in Michigan and said the Korean deal will hurt the United States auto industry, increase our trade deficit, cost us good middle-class jobs, and make America less competitive.
She pledged to you to reject the deal, but she lied, as always. She lied.
Once installed as secretary of state, she supported it and called it a cutting-edge transaction.
Same things going to happen with TPP. Dont give her the chance, folks. Youre going to lose all your jobs. Dont forget, when she ran for the Senate in New York state, she said she was going to bring back jobs in upstate New York. It was a total lie. We lost more and more jobs, and today its a total disaster.
She rammed it through as she always tries to do. Her donors were happy. They were all extremely friendly to her. They helped her out. Everybody was satisfied except for the workers of our country. We lost our jobs.
The U.S. trade deficit with Korea for the top 10 products that Michigan exports to Korea grew 54 percent as exports fell and imports rose. So it was an exact opposite of what she said. And she probably knew it, although I personally think shes incompetent. She might not have known it.
Dont forget, she has a distinction. She failed her bar exam in Washington, D.C. Remember that. Thats a big distinction.
This is what Hillary Clinton did for your state. According to the Economic Policy Institute, Michigan ranks first for jobs lost as a share of workforce due to the trade deficit with TPP members. OK?
Just imagine how many more jobs will be lost if the TPP actually gets approved, as Hillary Clinton wants to make sure it happens. Hillary Clinton is merely a vessel for the special interests trying to strip this country of its wealth, its jobs, and its status as a sovereign nation.
She even supports the disastrous surrender of Americas control of the Internet, which is happening now.  How about Obama? How about Obama? Wants to give the Internet, let it be given to the world.
What a bunch of people we have representing us. What a bunch of people. See how nice Im doing? You know? A year ago, I would have said something vicious and they would have said, Donald Trump uses foul language." What a group we have.""hat a bunch of people we have representing us. What a b"
How about where Obama on the worst deal that Ive ever seen negotiated, the Iran deal, started by Hillary Clinton, by the way, which will give them nuclear weapons in less than 10 years, and its an easy path, but how about where he gave them $400 million in cash?
And then it turned out to be wrong. It was $1.7 billion in cash. Can you believe it? You know what that is? Its take that corner of the room and stack the cash to the ceiling. Nobodys seen that. Has anybody ever seen $1.7 billion in cash? What a bunch of losers we have.
Hillary Clintons website says she supports the decision to give away the Internet to a global community of stakeholders. Isnt that nice? We come up with the Internet, and they want to give it away. Isnt that wonderful? Someone needs to inform Hillary Clinton its not the job of our leaders to represent the global community.
Its the job of our leaders to represent American citizens.
USA! USA! USA!
We invent the Internet. Lets just give it away, folks. Lets just give it away. But it really is -- honestly, is it hard to believe or what? Forget about running for office. Forget about voting. Forget about politics. Can you believe the things they do? $400 million, oh, turns out to be $1.7 billion, in cash. The Internet.
How about last week where they were going to deport 800 people? Now they have a reason they were going to deport them. Right? So they were going to deport 800 people. And guess what? Something went wrong. And instead of deporting them, they became citizens of the United States of America.
Only in America. Don King, who supported me, Big Don, he goes, only in America can that happen. But they were wrong. But there was a mistake. There was a mistake. It turned out that the 800 person number was wrong. It looks like its now going to be close to 1,800.
And then I said, OK, they made a big mistake. Lets turn it around and lets deport them. And they said, but that wouldnt be constitutional. Can you believe these people? Can you? Can you believe these people?
America losing control of the Internet to foreign entities is just one more way Obama-Clinton have sold out the citizens of this country. Somebodys benefiting by that deal, because nobody can be so stupid to make a deal like that. Somebody is benefiting by that deal.
Hillary Clinton is a globalist who will never protect the freedom and jobs of the American people. Im not running to be president of the world. Im running to be president of the United States of America.
USA! USA! USA!
Have you ever wondered why it is that all things that the American people want never, ever seem to happen? The reason is simple. Its because the financial interests who control our politics and our media, which is one of the most dishonest groups of people ever in this country...
Like, for instance, look at this massive crowd. They dont show the crowd, folks. I go home. My wife said, oh, were there many people? I say thousands. She goes, really? I didnt see them. I didnt see them. They dont show them.
Hey, cameras, why dont you span the room and show the room, cameras? Span the room.
They wont do it. They wont do it. They never do it. They never do it. Theyre dishonest people.
Trump! Trump! Trump!
Dishonest people. I remember during the primaries -- I remember during the primaries when Bernie Sanders was doing well, he made a terrible deal. He sold out to the devil, you know that? And now people dont even want to show up for Bernie. He sold out. He should have never made that deal. He should have gone down. He would have been an American hero. He sold out to Hillary Clinton. He sold out to the devil, and his people dont want anything to do with him.
He had an event the other day. Almost nobody showed up. But I remember when he was hot and he was getting big crowds. And I had an event at the same time a little different location. I had 17,000 people. He had 3,000 people. And the media reported it. And they said, Donald Trump had a rally tonight. And then he started falling asleep, 17,000.
Then they reported on Bernie Sanders. Bernie Sanders had a massive crowd of 3,000 people tonight, 3,000 people. You know what 3,000 people is? Its like a little piece of that corner of the room.
So for him -- its true. So for crazy Bernie, they had a little -- for me, they dont want to report it. But thats OK, because we understand whats happening. Just as long as you know how dishonest these people are. And boy were they dishonest on the debate. Man. They were -- theres never been dishonesty.
And by the way, by the way, it was just announced by the commission that holds the debate that Donald Trumps microphone was defective, as Ive been saying.
I mean, working that microphone was a hell of a lot more difficult than working crooked Hillary Clinton. That I can tell you. They just announced -- it just came out a little while ago, that the microphone in the audience, the big room, was defective. And it was not -- it was difficult.
And, you know, when you have a situation like that, and you know its bad, and you think you have 100 million people watching, what do you do, stop the show? Please fix it. It was bad. I wonder why it was bad. Think of that. I wonder why it was bad. It was so bad.
Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and has never done anything for you or your family, and she never will. Just look how badly she messed up the Iran deal. And just today, we learned that on the same day as the hostages were released, the United States signed an agreement lifting sanctions on two Iranian banks involved in financing Irans missile program.
And you know where they want those missiles to eventually land, dont you, folks? Huh? Right here. Right here. Right here in this country. Thats where they want them to land. And theyre taunting us with the boats. Theyre taunting us with the 10 sailors they captured. Theyre taunting us by flying right next to our airplanes.
So we give them all this money, $150 billion back. We give them the deal of a lifetime. And instead of saying thank you, they feel emboldened. That wont happen with us, folks.
So just think of what I said before, the way she failed upstate New York, the way she promised all those jobs that never happened. Our campaign is taking on big business. Were taking on big media. And its not pleasant. I have never, ever in my life received stories like I receive now. I mean, it is called the greatest pile-on in the history of America. Even journalists that dont like me say its the craziest thing theyve ever seen. But Im doing it -- Im doing it everybody. Who knows? Im doing it for everybody. Doing it for you.
Our campaign is about breaking up the special interest monopoly in Washington, D.C. Were trying to disrupt the collusion between the wealthy donors, the large corporations, and the media executives. Theyre all part of the same corrupt political establishment. And they nod along when Hillary Clinton slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable. Youre deplorable and irredeemable, she says.
See, she doesnt know you like I know you. You are the smartest people. Were the strongest people. Were the most loyal people ever to be involved in a campaign.
I call you hardworking American patriots. And together, we are going to save this country. And were not going to have a second chance, folks. If we dont do it on November 8th, its not going to happen. I dont believe -- if we have to have Barack Obama but worse for four more years, I honestly believe our country can never recovery.
And remember, Supreme Court judges. Remember that. But together, we can accomplish anything we want. But that means you need to show up on November 8th. We have 39 days until the election. You have 39 days to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true. Do not let this opportunity slip away. Get out and vote and make sure everything is on the up-and-up.
Trump! Trump! Trump!
Make sure everything is on the up-and-up. Youve been reading the same stories as Ive been reading. So go to your place and vote and go pick some other place and go sit there with your friends and make sure its on the up-and-up.
Because you know what? Thats a big, big problem in this country, and nobody wants to talk about it. Nobody has the guts to talk about it. So go and watch these polling places. Make sure its on the up-and-up. Please.
That would be one hell of a way to lose, Ill tell you right now. You have one magnificent chance to deliver justice. For every forgotten man, woman and child in this nation -- and there are a lot -- the arrogance of Washington, D.C., will soon come face-to-face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.
November 8th, were going to show the whole world that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
USA! USA! USA!
In summing up, here are just some of the great things that will happen for your country. Were going to lower your taxes substantially. Shes going to raise your taxes.
Were going to eliminate every unnecessary regulation. She is going to add regulation. Were going to repeal and replace job- killing Obamacare. Were going to make childcare affordable. Were bringing childcare into the picture. My daughter, Ivanka, wants it, and I want it.
Were going to bring manufacturing jobs -- were going to bring those automobile jobs back to Michigan, and I mean back fast.
Were going to eliminate Common Core. Were going to bring education local.
We will end illegal immigration. We will keep...
Build the wall! Build the wall! Build the wall!
We will build the wall. And whos going to pay for the wall?
Mexico will!
One hundred percent. Mexicos going to pay for the wall. They just dont know it yet. But trust me, theyre going to pay for it.
We have such a trade deficit with Mexico. I was in Mexico. I really like the president. I love the country. I love the people in Mexico. I have so many Mexicans that work for me. Theyre friends of mine. These are great people. But their leaders are so much smarter than our leaders.
We have a trade deficit that is massive with Mexico. The wall is a tiny fraction of what were talking about. So when people say, how are they going to do it? I say look at the trade deficit. Look at the cost of the wall. And even the politicians that have no clue whats happening, they say, oh, now I get it.
But they could never produce it. So were going to have the wall. And were going to stop drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth.
Were going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
USA! USA! USA!
We are going to save the Second Amendment, which is under siege.
We are going to take care of our inner cities, our African- American communities, our Hispanic communities. Were going to make them good again. Were going to make them safe again.
We are going to support the men and women of law enforcement.
And were going to appoint justices to the Supreme Court of the United States who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our highways. We will rebuild so beautifully our airports, our schools, and our hospitals. American cars made right here in Michigan will travel the roads. American planes will soar the skies. And American ships will patrol the sea.
American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds. And we will take care of our steelworkers. And we will take care of our miners. Well going to take care of our miners and our steelworkers.
American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy mined from American sources will power this nation again.
American workers, many of you in this room, will be hired to do the job. And these will be great jobs. We will put new American steel into the spine of our country. I will fight for every neglected part of this nation, and I will fight to bring us all together as Americans.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.
To the people of Michigan, I promise you this. You get out, and you vote on November 8th for Donald J. Trump for president, youll be voting for yourselves, because our movement will be complete phase one. Phase two is we will make America wealthy and rich again. Got to do it.
We will make America strong again.
We will make America safe again.
