Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Fayetteville, North Carolina|September 9, 2019
Wow, thank you. Thank you.  Everybody, thank you and Vice President Mike Pence, thank you very much. Incredible. And hello to Fayetteville. Hello Fayetteville. Its great to be here in North Carolinas 9th Congressional District with the hardworking patriots who believe in faith, family, God, and country.
Thank you. Thank you. Tomorrow, you head to the polls to elect a congressman who always puts America first, Dan Bishop. Ive just come from a meeting with North Carolina officials representing communities hit by Hurricane Dorian, and I expressed the unwavering solidarity of the American people. We are behind you 100%, 100%. The prayers of our entire nation, are with the citizens of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and everyone else that was in the storms path, and I will say I was called by the government of the Bahamas and were helping with the Bahamas.
They were hit so hard. They were hit so hard. Who would believe it. We pledged the full support of the federal government through every step of the rebuilding process, and I will say North Carolina in our country probably, got hit the hardest. That was a little bit of a surprise, but I know one thing about North Carolina: you can take it and youll build it quickly and youll build it beautifully, and youll be back sooner than anybody ever thought and itll be better than ever, right?
No doubt about. I also want to give a special recognition to the many nongovernmental organizations doing so much to help people recover from Dorian. In particular, Franklin Graham, hes a wonderful guy and hes got an organization samaritans Purse based right here in North Carolina and the work that Franklin and his family and all of those that are with Franklin Graham, we want to thank them.
Special, great people. Great people. Thank you, Franklin. Thank you. Incredible job. He does such a great job all over, wherever theres a problem. You see Samaritans first and Franklin and his people. We love the people of this state and we will never ever leave your side. North Carolina will truly recover so fast, I know you people so well.
Lets not even talk about it. Lets not even talk about it. Were here tonight to discuss the extraordinary progress were making as a nation and how to ensure this amazing resurgence keeps on going and going strong. In just over two years, weve taken this big beautiful ship and its being turned around very quickly.
Nobody thought this would happen. You know we won the greatest election, certainly one of them, but maybe the greatest, but we won one of the greatest. Lets say one, this way I wont be criticized. Theyll say, "You know George Washington had a great election too." The fake news, right? The fake news. But we won one of the greatest elections in history and because of that, and you would be in big trouble if we didnt, I can tell you that.
Youd be -- instead of going up, we were heading in the wrong direction. We have the No. 1 economy anywhere in the world and every time I meet a foreign leader almost every time they say, "Congratulations on what youve done with the economy." I said, "I didnt do it. I just set a certain path. The people of the United States did it." No. 1 anywhere in the world.
And they tried to do the recession thing. You know, they tried to rush a thing, that didnt work. They tried many other things, I always say the media and their partner, the Democrats. I wouldnt mind fighting the Democrats, but we really have to look at as it -- to some its the media and the Democrats.
Its one and the same. Were rebuilding our military, defending our sovereignty and reclaiming our dignity as a nation. America is winning again and America is respected again. They respect America.  By the way, I have about like 10 women in the front row and you come from North Carolina and they travel all over the place.
Hold up your hands. These are great women. I see them so much and I must say they have other things to do. They look rich as hell to me, I dont know. How many is this, how many rallies have you come to? They cant count it. They said all of them, except for two. Thats a lot of rallies and it all emanates from this area.
Thats so great. Well, at least you wont have to travel so far for this one, right? Thank you very much for being here. We really appreciate it. Well, we appreciate, we appreciate it. Thank you. Really incredible people. But you know, weve created six million new jobs since Election Day, and I couldnt say that in my initial rallies, because nobody would have believed that.
Six million new jobs. More Americans are working today than ever before in the history of our country. Almost 160 million Americans, nobody would have thought that was possible. We wouldnt have been able to say it, actually. Weve now had 13 straight months of wage gains of at least 3%, so that people that work so hard, you remember I used to say during the rallies before we won, people worked two jobs, three jobs and they made less money than they made 21 years before, and now wages are going up, the economy is doing great and jobs have never been better.
So importantly, more than seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Nearly 600,000 Americans entered the labor force last month alone. Think of that. And the unemployment rate for African-Americans just reached another brand new, yesterday, all-time low in the history of our country. How do you lose that debate?
Remember I used to say, "What do you have to lose?" Well now you have the best unemployment numbers, employment and unemployment numbers that youve ever had as African-Americans, as Asian-Americans, as Hispanic-Americans. The best numbers weve ever had. And by the way, African-American youth unemployment has also reached the lowest level ever recorded in history and the labor force participation rate for women is at the highest level now in 15 years and soon will be 35 years, and soon, I promise, will probably end up being better than ever.
I can tell you the unemployment numbers for women are the best theyve been, now, in 72 years. So I always say kiddingly, Im sorry I didnt make it historic, but you know what its going to be historic very soon. That would be historic, guys. Ad here in North Carolina over 230,000 more people now have jobs and small business formation has skyrocketed by more than 25%. There you go. But the radical democrats want to dismantle, demolish, and destroy everything that youve gained and they will do it, and it wont take that long and thats why we need Dan Bishop and Greg Murphy.
We need them. We need them going down to Congress and helping, but they can do it. Its also why we need four more years. It has to see this like a plant. Weve changed things right, keep America Great, weve changed things, but its got to grow. Its got a develop those roots, and once it does ,its going to be very hard for them to destroy what weve done, very hard.
And thats really why I consider this election -- Look. We had a very, very special day in 2016. It was a very special time. A very special time. Its an incredible day, an incredible month, an incredible year, and I dont know that you can ever compare anything to it. But I can say: this, 2020 is essentially just as important, because theyll try and take it away, whether it has to do with religion or evangelicals are here tonight and theyre all over the place.
And what weve done for them and for religion is so important. You know the other side, I dont think theyre big believers and not big believers in religion that I can tell you. You listen to some of them. Theyre trying. Theyre trying to put out little statements, theyre not working too well. Those statements are a little bit sort of not too good huh.
What is the word we want to use here? A little -- No, no. Theyre pushing a little hard and its not play, its not working. To stop the far left, you must vote in tomorrows special election, so important. Or get your votes in early. I think a lot of -- Who voted early for Dan Drescher? Well, thats good, but the big thing is tomorrow.
Tomorrows the election and youll get out to protect your family. You must defeat open borders and you have a Democrat named Dan McCready and he wants open borders. He wants sanctuary cities hes not going to protect your Second Amendment hes doing nothing on your Sec -- You know North Carolinas, a very big Second Amendment state.
And Dan Bishop, Greg Murphy, these guys, theyre going to protect your Second Amendment, but one of the biggest issues in this election is, in fact, sanctuary cities. McCready supports sanctuary city policies that force prisons and jails to release criminal aliens directly into your neighborhoods. Get out, go ahead, go into the neighborhood.
Go and -- Whats your neighborhood? Where do you live?
Rutherford County. OK. So how do you feel about having them released? Hardened, horrible criminals into Rutherford County. I dont think so. But your whole state, its honestly -- Can I be honest? Its crazy whats happening. This whole thing with sanctuary cities and you go to California, which has so many sanctuary cities. They dont know, whats happening out there. You have people that want to get rid of those sanctuary cities.
They just arent able to do it with the people that get elected a lot of illegal voting going on out there, by the way. A lot of illegal voting. In August, McCready said it was quote, "The right call to set illegal alien criminals loose in the great state." Im using the words great state, he doesnt, up North Carolina.
With the support and encouragement of McCreadys sanctuary jurisdictions in North Carolina have released thousands of dangerous criminal aliens into your communities, and you see it, you see it. The charges against these three criminals include sexual assault, robbery, drug crimes, kidnapping, and homicide, murder.
Why would you do it? Why would you do it? What is it explain it just recently, Mecklenburg County set free, an illegal alien charged with first --

Hello, North Carolina. Hello, Fayetteville. Hello, 9th District of North Carolina. Mr. President, were not tired of winning. We want to keep on winning. And tomorrow, Tuesday, September 10, 2019, were going to win the 9th District of North Carolina. Weve all watched as the Democratic Party, the socialist democrat party, seeks the Presidents destruction every day.
Weve seen a dishonest media serve as their handmaidens and their allies in that mission.
Weve watched as the greatest fighter ever to occupy the White House has pushed them more. Mr. President, you dont need -- Mr. President, you dont need North Carolina, the 9th District. You got someone -- all right -- we got someone who  over here. Give him some space.
A doctor in the house, please. Doctor, please. Doctor in the house. Thank you. Take your time. Please take your time. I have plenty of time. Thank you. Take your time. Thank you, doctor. Take your time. People have been staying outside for two days to get in so this happens.
Thank you. Thank you, doctor. Doing better? Good. Thats good. Thats good. Thats great. Thats really great. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thats really great. Thank you very much. I guess Dans speech wasnt so good. Thats great. Thank you very much. Great job. Thank you, doctor. Thank you, everybody.
Thank you, law enforcement. Thank you very much.
Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that person will be OK. Lets all say a prayer for that person to be all right. Yeah. Because thats what we do, we pray. And I share your values, Im not ashamed of your values, Im going to defend your values in Washington D.C.
As this great fighter faces all those long odds. The Socialist Democrats, the fake media, the last thing he needs is for the ninth district to send him another Nancy Pelosi clone. President Trump needs nobody else in Washington who supports sanctuary cities and counties here in North Carolina or anywhere else.
Whats going to happen tomorrow, on Tuesday, September 10, is the 9th District is going to send the congressman with backbone, who can stand up to the smears and the lives of the lying, fake news media and support the President of the United States, as he keeps America great. And what I need you to do, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, I need you to vote.
I need you to vote, but thats not all. I need you to vote, but beyond that, take a lesson from President Donald J. Trump. Dont rely on them to get our message out. Take out your phone go to votedanbishop.com. Im going to repeat that, go to votedanbishop.com and right there at the top of that website, youre going to see a video featuring the President of the United States, telling you to vote for right Dan not wrong Dan, and right below that video, that little frame, youre going to see buttons three buttons to share that video.
And you dont have to rely on that news media. You can use those buttons and send that out to all of your friends on Facebook, on Twitter or on email so theyll know that President Trump can have a fighter for the values of the 9th District in Washington D.C.
Tomorrows our chance. Lets tell him, lets show him, go out and vote for right Dan. Vote for Dan Bishop tomorrow, September 10. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President Trump. Thank you.
Thank you, Dan. That was a good job. That was a good job. He means it too, hes great. Get out and vote tomorrow for Dan Bishop, please. So weve had great support over the last six months, in particular, from a man who happens to be your senator right now, and we need him to keep going because he has been fantastic and I believe hes here tonight.
I just came in. The weather wasnt so great to be traveling today. They said, "Maybe we could skip North Carolina today, sir." I said, "No, thank you." I said, "No, thank you." Can you imagine? And by the way, I have to say, we have a big crowd in here, right? You have to see outside thousands and thousands of people who couldnt get in and when people wait two or three days to come in and especially these first rows, I just want to tell you we really thank you.
Incredible. But Thom Tillis has really worked with us over the last bit of time. Hes recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to sue sanctuary cities. Thats a big deal. And hold them accountable for the lives that theyve shattered. But to pass the bill we need more Republicans tomorrow.
There is another crucial, special election and we have a fantastic guy running in that one too, Republican Greg Murphy who looks like hes in good shape, but youve got to get out. So I want to introduce Thom Tillis and I want to introduce Greg Murphy and I want to thank you both. Thank you. Thank you, Thom, and thank you, Greg.
So Greg Murphy is looking to, like Dan, cut your taxes, defend your Second Amendment support our policies. Really, really support our military and our veterans. We have rebuilt our military. Greg Murphy come on up for a second here. Greg Murphy. Come up, come up, Greg. Come on up, Greg. Come on up Greg just for a second, then well get back to business.
We got to do this, and I dont know, hes been a great champ. Thank you, Greg. Come.
Thank you, Mr. President. Hello, Fayetteville. Hello, Fayetteville. It is a pleasure to be amongst people who believe in God, country, and family. Our Democrats have given up on God. Theyve pushed it away from our country, they want to give our country away and they want to destroy the nuclear family. We have a President, a bold man who has brought those three principles back to our faith and to our country.
We need to come out and support him. So I ask you tomorrow, tomorrow, please it was actually good for me to see that actually few of you have already voted, because every single one of you needs to show up tomorrow and support Dan Bishop as your next Congressman or actually me, if Ill be your next congressman, we are here to serve you.
We are here to help our President and we are here to keep America great. God bless you all.
Good luck tomorrow, Greg. Get out there vote for those two guys, theyre terrific. Were thrilled to be joined tonight by many more terrific Republican leaders, a man whos really been stepping up to the front. He defended Justice Kavanaugh when he was treated so badly. Ive never seen anything like the treatment that Justice Kavanaugh received.
And everybody respects him and everybody likes him and I like him, and we used to fight like hell, right? We do. But we dont fight anymore. We like each other a lot and hes a special man and hes become a special friend. Senator Lindsey Graham. Another man, whos a fighter. I guess were all fighters, you have to be a fighter youre not going to be here very long.
I can tell you that. We got to fight them more than anybody else. But a man who has done an incredible job in Washington took over a rough situation and hes become the real leader. He is a leader like you havent seen and thats Republican Leader, Kevin McCarthy. Kevin. Kevin is working so hard for so many different people.
He wants to see Dan and Greg win so badly. Thank you for being here, appreciate it leader. Representative David Rouzer, David, thank you. David Rouzer. Hes done a fantastic job. Our Lieutenant Governor, who is going to be, I think, a highly competitive candidate for a very important race, Dan Forest. Thank you, Dan.
Thank you very much, Dan. We also have North Carolina Republican party chair, Michael Whatley. What a job hes done. And we have a man from North Carolina who loves the state, he fights so hard. He doesnt know what it is not to fight. You know what who Im talking about? They got it, Mark. Theyre all screaming Mike Meadows.
Thats right. Hes great. So many, Jim Jordan, Andy Biggs, gates, and I just got some -- by the way, Devin Nunes. How about Devin? He was out there when it wasnt in vogue to be saying that Komi was a stone, cold liar, and leaker, but he knew a long time. Devin Nunes, but Mark Meadows has been incredible.
And do they love him in your state? Do they love him? Do they love Mark Meadows? Thank you, Mark. Also a friend of mine has been with us from the beginning, hes not a politician, but he might as well be one. He loves us, he loves this party and he loves your state, lives here, Louis DeJoy, one of the most successful people.
Thank you, Louis and your wife is doing a great job, Louis. And a very special thanks to my son, Don Jr. and Kimberly. Great job. Did Don Jr. give a good speech? I heard that they all said he was on fire. Well, hes fighting. He loves this country. My son loves this country, my family loves this country and you know, two people from your state that the first lady before she was first lady, she said, you know, there are two people that are unbelievable.
You got to watch him. I said Im not interested. Im too busy? No, no, No, You have to watch him. Ive never seen this so great theyre, so smart, they love the country, they love you, Diamond and  They are incredible. Incredible people. Thank you very much. Thank you. What a job and theyre doing very well.
I have to tell you that. Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American.  And by the way, so is Doug Collins and so is John Ratcliffe. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. Two incredible fighters also. For decades, our leaders put global interests and special interests ahead of your interests.
You know that better than anybody. And this state knows it better than anybody. They traded away your factories, sold your future, squandered your tax dollars, sacrifices your security and bog this down in one foreign debacle after another. But all of that has changed. Youre respected again, theyre all saying, oh gee, I hope he doesnt do this or that.
Theyve taken advantage of us for years, and I have to say, sadly, in many cases, its our allies that took the greatest advantage of this country. But now you finally have a President who understands that. Im not supposed to be the President of the world, Im supposed to be the President of the United States.
To bring back our jobs from other countries, we passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. Weve cut a record number of job killing regulations. No President, no matter how long they serve, has gotten anywhere even close to what weve done with regulations and thats one of the reasons our economy is so good.
And we have tremendous potential upward and China wants to talk. They want to talk. Chinas lost three million jobs, thousands of companies are leaving China. The supply chain is crumbling because they cant pay the tariffs, and our country has taken over things that you would have never thought. As an example, hundreds of billions of dollars have been and are coming into our country in the form of tariffs and Chinas eating the cost, which the fake news doesnt want to tell you.
And out of the tens of billions of dollars that weve taken in -- because of the fact that our great American patriot farmers have been targeted by China, theyve been targeted, because they know the farmers like Trump -- I love the farmers, so they targeted the farmers and I said to Sonny Perdue, secretary of Agriculture.
Sonny, how much was it? Last year and the year before, tell me. It was $12 billion and it was $16 billion and out of the tariffs that weve taken in, we gave to our farmers for distribution, hopefully, very good distribution, hopefully, very even distribution weve given them $28 billion so that their whole, so that their whole.
Nobody would ever do that. Nobody would ever do that. I can tell you that right now. And our farmers know we have to fight. I see it all the time, where some of the networks that are crazy, they have a group of farmers. In some cases they have groups of women, they say, "What do you think of President Trump?", "We like him a lot.
Were with him all the way." And they want to turn off the cameras they go crazy, but with the farmers, you know that. You ever see that, the 10 women? "What do you think of President Trump?", "We love him?" Oh, I like to put you on television, Ill tell you that. and they cant turn off those cameras fast enough, but they said to the farmers, "You voted for President Trump, are you happy?" and every one of them said, "He did things and nobody has ever done before?" Who would think of getting 12 billion plus, 16 billion, $28 billion because theyve been targeted?
Thats the amount. I asked Sonny. I said, "Sonny, whats the amount they took out of our farmers, there was 16 billion and the year before, 12, and I said, "Sonny, weve got to make that up." and we made it up. Who would do that? Nobody would do that. First of all, nobody else ever had tens of billions of dollars pouring in from China because its always been the other way around.
China has taken advantage of our country for decades, decades, and I guarantee you one thing. None of these Democrats, whether its Pocahontas or sleepy Joe, none of them, would be able to do a think about it, and nobody would ever think of helping the farmers who have been targeted by China. China made $500 billion over the last number of years.
On a yearly basis, they steal our intellectual property, so many other things. So now its just different, and now its working the other way and tariffs are a beautiful thing when you know how to use them. Theyre a beautiful. And I want China to do well and I hope they do well, but theyve had now the worst year in 57 years.
I wonder why. I wonder why. And hopefully it all work out, well see were going to be talking next week. Were talking now theyre going to be coming to the United States in two or three weeks and well see what happens, but unless were going to make a good deal or a fair deal for our country, lets face it. We cannot go back to a situation, were giving hundreds of billions of dollars to China become standard fare not going to happen.
We cant do it. And we have many other countries also, but well worry about them a little bit later, plenty of others, plenty of others. Theyve taken advantage of our country, like you wouldnt believe. And Ive been saying this for many years. I was saying this when I was a private citizen. They take our jobs, they make our product, they sell the product into our country with no tax, no nothing.
So we end up with closed factories, no jobs, no taxes, no nothing. And these other countries gain as an example, Mexico, I must say. Theyve really helped us at the border. The Democrats will not do anything about these horrible, open loopholes, which would be so good. So were doing it a different way and Mexico is now patrolling with 27,000 troops.
Theyd never had two trips to it. Our border. And you saw the numbers today were down approximately 57%, but our country could fix it so easy if the Democrats would sit with me for 15 minutes, but they dont want to do that because they want to have open borders, they want to have drugs pouring into our country.
You have to have a wall and you have to stop it and when you look at whats happening with human trafficking and its mostly women, they traffic, in women, and they pour through our borders. Well, every inch of wall that we put up is vital and were putting up miles and miles, and we intend by next year, at the end of the year, to have anywhere between 400 and 500 miles of wall built, and this is serious wall.
This is the real deal. Serious wall. And I want to thank our new secretary of defense, Mark Esper, for the job hes done and he views it really as a national security threat, and you have to. What can be much more threatening than people that want to pour Across our borders and we have the worst laws, we have the weakest laws in the history of any country.
You cant do anything to stop them. You have a program, catch and release. You catch them, and then you have to release them and theyre supposed to come back to court in the next three, four, five, six years and nobody shows up and the Democrats dont want to fix it, so were stopping them. So we dont even have to worry about court.
We ended the last administrations cruel war on American energy. The United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. And for all of these crazy people, but theyre not so crazy, they know what theyre doing. Theyre talking about Russia, Russia, Russia. Russias not too happy about that.
Their primary source of income is oil and gas, and now were bigger than Russia, bigger than Saudi Arabia, were bigger than everybody, and were doing great. So theyre not exactly happy. The Russian hoax was a pure hoax. You saw that with me the other day, yet every leading Democrat running for President pledges to ban the energy that drives our economy and wage and under -- If you look at whats going on, your way of life is under assault by these people.
I mean, I go out, and sometimes I visit these huge audiences and I wish we could have gotten a larger arena than this. We tried. I was even willing to stand out in the rain and get my hair soaking wet, but they said it was a little bit out of your district, And I said, "I dont know if it looks good being out of your district." But I was willing to do it. And I would have taken it, I would have been very proud to have done it. It would have shown its my real hair, at least.
It wouldnt be pretty. Its my hair, may not be great, but I will say its better than most of my friends who are the same age, a lot better, a lot. But I do, you know, we had a different location, as you all know. And we said, lets do this one is bigger and we put screens outside for all of the people we have screens and loudspeakers and everything its really amazing whats going on out there.
But after years of building up other countries, we are finally building up our country, thats the bottom line. And the last administration, with Biden and Obama at the helm, they tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, you could have kissed many of your industries goodbye.
TPP would have gutted the American auto industry. It would have been even worse than NAFTA, and we know how bad NAFTA was. All you have to do is even to this day look around at all those empty plants where people move down and companies move down to Mexico, not under the USMCA. We got to get Nancy Pelosi to put it up for a vote, make it bipartisan.
Shell have tremendous Democrats support the farmers want it, the unions want it, the manufacturers want it, and by the way, 600,000 manufacturing jobs in this country, remember? You would need a magic wand. You cant do that anymore. Well, we did, but weve got to get USMCA put up for a vote by the Democrats, but in my first week in office I proudly withdrew from that job destroying TPP catastrophe.
And were replacing one of the worst trade deals ever made by any country. You can go back as far as you want, NAFTA. The disaster of NAFTA, so whatever you do, start talking to your people, we need a vote on the USMCA, thats United States, Mexico and Canada and theyve already voted. They want it and we want it and its great for the farmers, its great for everybody.
Were also aggressively combating a problem that you have in North Carolina, problem that we have in almost all states, the opioid epidemic. Last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug-overdose deaths in nearly 31 years and at the center of the American drug crisis is the border crisis. Criminal cartels smuggle vast quantities of lethal narcotics across our southern border, including heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl.
A hundred thousand people a year die from what comes across our southern border and we cant get the Democrats to help us in sealing it even tighter. We got to get them, we got ta get them. So if you want to stop the drug smugglers, the human traffickers, the vicious MS -3 gang members, and by the way, thank you to ICE, these people go into those -- they go into those -- Yes, we call them nest  hes a vicious, vicious people.
We go into the nest with our ice people and you know for them its another day at the office. There arent too many people in this room that want to do it for a living. Let me see. That guy, good. Maybe him, maybe her, right. Maybe her, but its a rough job and they get so little praise for the job they do so dangerous.
These are -- These are many killers in those gangs and were taking them out of our country by the thousands and MS-13. And as you know, Democrats even want to give free health care to illegal immigrants. As long as Im your President, I will never ever let Democrats take away your health care and give it away free to people that have entered our country illegally.
We cant do a tremendous incentive to come in. Democrats also want to bring in unlimited numbers of foreign refugees from overseas all at the expense of supporting their own communities. Republicans, no matter what you do, where you are, we want people to obey our laws. We want people that are going to help our country.
The Democrat Party has never been farther outside of the mainstream. Every major Democrat running for President supports a massive government takeover of health care that would raid Medicare forced private doctors out of medicine and lead to the rationing of life saving treatments. And you know theyre going to take away your private health care, your private insurance.
One hundred and eighty million people will lose with what they want to do. Its a disaster. You know its like -- Did you ever really sort of feel where you dont even have to treat people nicely? You dont have any choice. You have to vote for me. I can leave right now. I can say, "North Carolina, Ive had it with you, Im leaving right now." And you know what, you got to go out and vote.
What are you going to do, put one of these crazy people running our country again? But its never been so far left. I told the story the other day about a businessman I saw one of the biggest in the country. You probably know his name, one of the biggest. Hes hated me for 20 years that Ive hated him also, OK, Now theyre going to go out tomorrow, breaking news, "Donald Trump, hates people." and youre sort of right about that.
I never liked this guy and I see him in the White House and I say, "What are you doing here?" and he goes, "Mr. President..." see, now he calls me Mr. President, he used to call me something else. "Mr. President, Im fighting for your victory." I said, "You got to be kidding." He goes, "Honestly youre doing a great job, but also if this radical left gets in theyre, going to take away everything and theyre going to destroy our country." and for the first time I like this guy.
My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you. Remember, President Obama, 28 times, remember, 28 times they counted him and theres much more than that I would imagine, that you can choose your plan, you can choose your doctor, it didnt work out that way, did it? Obamacare.
And were caping Obamacare alive, We got rid of the individual mandate, the worst part of Obamacare were keeping it and running it as well as it can, but the premiums are too high. The deductibles are through the roof, its ridiculous. And were coming up with Lindsey Graham and all of the folks who are coming up with a great health care plan that if we take back the House, thats why Dan and Greg.
If we take back the House, if we keep the Senate, maybe even increase it a little bit wouldnt be bad and on the assumption we keep the presidency, youre going to have great health care.
Thank you. We almost had it. We had a man campaigning for eight years to knock out Obamacare and when he voted it, it didnt work out that way, did it? We had it, we would have had it, but we could end up actually with a better plan. Sometimes through adversity, things work out better. Were going to end up with a better plan, you watch. Well always protect patients with pre-existing conditions also, always. You have my word. Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 51 years. Virtually, every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies, straight from the mothers womb right up to the moment of birth.
And if you look at Virginia, the Governor of Virginia, he was even talking about -- Essentially, you would say an execution. He was talking after the baby is born, the doctor will talk to the mother and theyll make a decision as to whether or not that baby lives. This is a radical Democrat idea. And thats why Ive asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God.
Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term, abortion, and socialism. Theyre socialists. The Republican Party, is the party of the American worker, the American family, and the American dream. Everyday, were making good on the motto: Promises Made, Promises Kept. In fact, we are keeping even more promises, by far, than we made or then we promise.
So many more, so many so many more. You know what we did with respect to people that are very sick or terminally ill, right? Right to Try.  I love the name, Right to Try. We have some of the greatest doctors in the world, labs in the world, hospitals in the world, and we have incredible medicine, thats prohibited from being used until it gets approval and sometimes that approval can take many years, and I said, wait a minute if a person is sick and theyve been trying to get this for 45 years?
I said, If a persons sick and maybe terminally ill, why arent we letting them try this new technology?" And so many things are happening and we did Right to Try, and it wasnt easy, but I was helped by Lindsey and a lot of great people, a lot of great people. All of them helped. Mark helped so much all of them helped, Greg.
We have had tremendous success. We had so many people wanting to help, but it was complicated, believe it or not, because the country didnt want the liability. I said, "You know what you do? You draw up an agreement taking away the liability." said, "Thats a good idea." The insurance companies and the drug companies were very unsure.
Its been going on for many years. I got it done. The results have been unbelievable, Right to Try. Things that we never even talked about were getting done, and you know maybe one of the biggest things is within about a month will have close to 180 federal judges, including appellate division judges. Including two great new Supreme Court justices, Justice Neil Gossage and Justice Brett Kavanaugh, who they put through hell.
We passed something that theyve wanted to do for half a century. We passed V.A choice so when youre great -- when youre great and honored veterans are waiting in line for three weeks, four weeks, five days, ten days, two months, they go to a private doctor, we pay for the bill and they get themselves taken care of instead of dying, which was happening.
And we also passed, V.A. accountability on behalf of our great veterans. That means when they treat our veterans badly, and they wouldnt have done it in primetime, I could tell you. But when they treat are sick and troubled veterans badly, we can say, "Youre fired." Its called V.A accountability. Thats another one theyve been trying and in all fairness, the unions made it very tough.
Civil service made it like almost impossible. Everyone said, "Youll never get it done." We got it done. I want to thank the Republican Senate. I want to thank some incredible people in the House of Representatives. And Kevin, I want to thank you, because that was a great job you did on that one. That was a great job.
Thank you. Kevin McCarthy. Weve achieved record funding for the U.S military $700 billion last year, $716 billion this year, $738 billion dollars -- and you know, Im a big believer in budgets, but we had no choice. We had to rebuild our military with all thats going on today with China, with Russia, with radical Islam.
With everything thats happening. We had to do something and you know budgets are fine. I love budgets and well get to that, dont worry about it, but we had to rebuild our military was totally depleted. It was totally depleted, and now we have beautiful new F-35s, F-18s, new ships, new missiles, new rockets.
We have new everything. I came back with Admiral Brown, the United States Coast Guard, and some of the other folks, and they were saying that the new Coast Guard cutters -- How good a job has the Coast Guard done during these hurricanes? And I said, "Admiral, how good are the new Coast Guard cutters?" He said that, "Theyre the finest in the world, sir.
We have the fine --" and they had all the broken equipment that they had to keep going on a shoestring. They have brand new Coast Guard cutters. We had to do it, we had to do it. Theres always time for the other, but we had to do it. Weve rebuilt our military, weve taken care of the great people that work in our military.
We gave them a raise, a beautiful raise they were so entitled to, and I also got other NATO members to pay an additional $100 billion over the last year and a half that they werent paying. They were delinquent. Were supposed to protect them and they dont pay. I say you cant do that. You cant do that.
Youve got to pay. NATO. Now were finally making immensely wealthy countries pay the cost of their defense, were negotiating with a lot of them. Think of it. We have these immensely wealthy countries and theyre paying for a fraction of our costs to defend them. How did that happen? And you know what the biggest excuse is when I go to them and Ill say, "King you got to pay." or "Mr. prime Minister, you got to pay" or "Mr. President, youve got to pay." You know its costing us billions of dollars to protect these wealthy -- You know their biggest thing is because I cant understand how we did this for so many years.
Decades, decades. You have been defending all of some -- I wont mention names because I dont want to embarrass anybody.  Forget it. Some of the wealthiest countries in the world and when I say king, president, prime minister, queen, no matter what I say -- You know they say? But nobodys ever asked us to do that before.
Thats the only excuse, because I said, "Why would we do this?" Why are we defending you youre immensely wealthy? You compete with us on trade, we have lousy trade deals that were renegotiating many of them and, ultimately all of them. "Why are we protecting you, Mr. President?" Well, well, I dont know I dont know, but you know what their answer is? Because youve always done it. Thats not a great answer.
So were taking in billions and billions, but I got $100 billion and the secretary general of NATO, Stoltenberg, is my biggest fan. He said, "Until President Trump, you had to see the data cost of spending was going like this, and ours was going like this." We were defending many countries that treat us very badly on trade and very unfairly.
We were defending them and now its changing around, $100 billion, theyre not happy, and then I read where Obama is more popular in Germany than Trump. Hes got to be. Im making people pay their bills. Hes got to be. You know the day that Im more popular than him, Im not doing my job. The big star.
They like him more in Europe than they like Trump. I think they should, hundred billion dollars more theyre paying to protect Americas security. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one sided Iran nuclear deal. We paid them $150 billion for that piece of work. I withdrew it and we put sanctions all over the place and theyre a much different country and lets see what happens, but I can tell you that I like to get back to business because theyre not doing very well.
When I came into office, Iran was a real terror, 18 sites of confliction, and they were behind every one of them in the Middle East, and who knows could have been elsewhere, and I said were not going to do it. A hundred and fifty billion dollars, President Obama paid, 1.8 billion in cash, whoever saw a million dollars piled up as a promotion in hundred dollar bills?
Its a lot. Its a big -- Now take a million dollars and make it $1.8 billion in cash. Im actually more impressed with that number than $150 billion, if you want to know the truth. One point eight billion dollars in cash and we got taken to the cleaners, so I terminated the deal. And I recognize Israels true capital and open the American embassy in Jerusalem, which every President said they were going to. And I also approved for Israel, the Golan Heights.
And if you really think about it, I said to people, "Whats more important, the Golan Heights or the capital of Jerusalem by moving our embassy there?" He said, "Neither, sir What youve done in Iran is more important than both of them." I said, "You know, I guess youre right when you think about it." So weve done a good job, all of us together.
As a movement, weve done a great job for Israel. For years you watch as your politicians apologize for America. Now you have a President who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of North Carolina. You must never forget that the 2020 election is about one thing, you, its true.
Not about me, its about you. Its about your family, your future and the fate of your country. Thats what we did in 2016. They came from the hills and the valleys. They came from the cities, they came from all over the place and people were saying, these fakers back there, they were saying, "What the hell is happening?" But I knew it was going to happen because we go out and wed see these rallies, the likes of which nobody has ever seen before, ever, ever, ever in politics, ever in politics.
A vote for any Democrat in 2020, and a vote for any Democrat tomorrow in North Carolina, is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of the American dream. We are entering this campaign with the best record. The best results, the best agenda and the only positive vision for the people of North Carolina and Ive said it, and I say it loudly and proudly, "I dont believe, theres been any President or any administration that has done more in two and a half years than we have as a group, than we have.
I dont believe so. When you add it all up, nobodys done what we have. Our first task is a giant victory. Tomorrow, tight here in the great state of North Carolina, with your support tomorrow, we take the first steps to firing Speaker Pelosi and winning back the House in 2020. We need everybody to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, and get out and vote for Dan Bishop and get out and vote for Greg Murphy.
You got to get out tomorrow and vote. Together, we will lift millions more from our horrible, horrible situations that have developed over the years. Look at whats happening to Democrat-run cities. every single one of them. Were going to lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity.
With your help, we will elect more Republicans to Congress to create a safe, modern, fair, and lawful system of immigration. We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with the four beautiful words: Made in the USA. Phone made in the USA. If you want, Made in America, I dont care.
What do you like better, made in America or made in the USA? Go ahead. Wait. Ready? Well go made in America then made in the USA? What do you like better made in America? Made in the USA? OK.  So I think we know that answer. So in 2016, we had, in my opinion, the greatest phrase in the history of politics: Make America Great Again, right?
Now were within moments, hopefully, of having despite what you heard a few weeks ago, maybe were heading they go like, "Please, please. Let there be recession, please." theyre willing to give up their results because they think itll help them win the election. Theyre not going to win the election. Dont forget, were doing this and still fighting the unfairness of China and other countries on trade.
What happens when that gets fixed and other things get fixed? Were -- were setting new records and were fighting trade deals and were fighting military deals that run fair to our country. Think what happens when it all gets fixed? We have ourselves a country thats going to be so strong. But we had a phrase: Make, right?
Make America Great Again, the best. I think it was maybe the greatest, 2016, but weve done a lot and now theyre very close to setting a new -- I think its the 118th time that we will have set a new record with the stock market, right? Many, many times. Many, many times. I cant be sure that media, but its a lot.
OK. I always have to preface it because youll do headlines. Headlines, "Trump didnt tell the truth." Oh, they love it. So I always-- Ive gotten extremely cautious, so he had the greatest phrase of all time. I think even the fake news media would agree, Make America Great Again, MAGA, MAGA country, Make America great Again.
OK. Now, now, weve largely -- we still have a year and a half, a little bit less. Can you believe it? Like, can you believe it? I stood in the White House with the first lady that first night and I said, "Wow look at this. Thats the bedroom of Abraham Lincoln. You have to see this, its so perfectly done, and so the way it was, thats the bedroom of the great Abe Lincoln.
I mean, honey, can you believe this?" That was the first night and now in less than a year and a half, the first term will be over. Think of that. I announced today that we got the soccer World Cup. Thats a big thing. Who else is going to do it? But its -- weve got a problem, its in 2026, Johnny Infante, who is a great guy and we announce it in front of the press and 2026, and I said, "Well, wait a minute under the normal rules, Ill be out in 2024." so we may have to go for an extra term.
Oh, they go crazy. They go crazy. Tomorrow, youre going to see headlines, Trump wants an extra term." I told you, I told you he wants -- He wants an extra term, ladies and gentlemen, we told you, we told you hes a dictator, we told you. No, no. Im only kidding. Im okay, but we actually have the World Cup, its the biggest sporting event in the world, and we got it and thats great were working it. Also with Mexico, Canada giving them some of the games, were going to have a great relationship with the World Cup.
Its a big deal. Really. Great Bob Kraft helped me doing with Patriots people. Great. Tom Brady had a pretty good game the other night, right? And how good a coach, whether you like it or not, I know youre North Carolina, but how good a coach in all fairness, right? His Coach Belichick. How good is he? How good is he? I know you want to be cool, but hes pretty good, right?
We have to appreciate genius, we all like genius, but were going to achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer, and ending within ten years, the AIDS epidemic in America. Thats shocking to hear that, but we can do that. Were going to do that. Definitely. Incredible the strides that weve made.
We will defeat the Democrat effort to drive up the cost of houses, cars, health care, and education by liberating Americans from the endless push for job-killing, soul-crushing Washington regulations. As an example, were trying to get the car companies to give a little bit of extra energy and theyll be able to build a car that consumers can buy, which will be better than the car they make today and youll save $3,500. Think of that.
Itll be safer, itll be better. You could save $3,500. Itll be less costly. And were going to try and get that done. And then they will forcing you to buy light bulbs that cost a fortune. So I signed something, a couple of days ago, that gives you the right to continue to use the incandescent light, and I dont know about you, much less six months.
I dont know about you, but I dont know, Im not a vain person. I know I have no vain people, especially these incredible ladies in the front. But I look better under an incandescent light that these crazy lights that are beaming down on. Like you know, somebody told me that, as you know, theyre much more expensive bulbs and for what you say, but they said that if a bulb breaks, its considered almost like a waste site.
Its a very big, the bulbs, the new bulbs, theyre very dangerous with all of the gases and all, and I said, "Well, whats the point? What are you saying?" Well, were saying if we continue that production they can buy whatever they want to buy, but youre going to save a tremendous amount of money and youre going to have a life, thats better, and there is a big danger In fact they have labels: Dont break this bulb.
What are you going to do? Are you going to throw it away? I promise I wont break it. On the new one, so youre going to hopefully by the new ones, but you can buy the old ones too, and you can save a lot of money and you can even look better. We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms.
Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together, as one America will be one united nation. We support, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. Thank you Lord, for we believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life.
We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way, like you. We believe that children should be taught to love our country honor our history and to always respect our great American flag. And we will live by the words of our national motto: In God We Trust. Itll stay there.
We stand on the shoulders of American patriots who cross the oceans, settle the continent, tame the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, put a man on the moon, and build the most exceptional country in the history of the world. We are great Americans and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to you.
With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting. Id like to fight a little bit less, but these people, they just dont stop. They just keep coming at you in waves. They are, unfortunately, not the best people and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
Were going to keep on winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. We may have, right now, the greatest economy in the history of our nation, and ladies and gentlemen of North Carolina, the best is yet to come. Together, we will make America wealthy again.
We will make America strong again, with joy. We will make America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.
With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting. Id like to fight a little bit less, but these people, they just dont stop. They just keep coming at you in waves. They are, unfortunately, not the best people and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
Were going to keep on winning. We are one movement, one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before. We may have, right now, the greatest economy in the history of our nation, and ladies and gentlemen of North Carolina, the best is yet to come. Together, we will make America wealthy again.
