Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Wheeling, West Virginia|September 29, 2018
Hello, West Virginia. Hello. What a great song. How great is that song? I am thrilled to be back in this incredible state with thousands of hard-working American patriots. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The people of West Virginia love our country, they honor our history and they always respect our great American flag, and this is a truly amazing time for our nation.
Our economy is booming like never before. Remember, I told you. And by the way, your state is booming like never before. Poverty is plummeting, our stock market is soaring, reached its all-time high, by the way, in history, which I view as: jobs, jobs, jobs. All-time high. And our great coal miners are back to work.
Theyre back to work. A lot of people said that wasnt going to happen, youre back to work. Not only back to work, theyre opening up mines all over the place, were opening up steel mills. And the steel mills need metallurgic coal, and those coal miners are working and the steel workers are working, and our whole country is working.
Were taking care of our veterans and our military will soon be more powerful than ever before. America is winning again, and America is respected again. I just left the United Nations. Believe me, they respect us now again. They all respect us. And what are we doing? Were putting America first, finally.
But a lot of what weve done, some people could say: "All of what weve done is at stake in November." Always fragile. We are just five weeks away from one of the most important congressional elections in our lifetimes. This is -- this is one of the big, big, in other words, thats true, Im not running but Im really running.
Thats why Im all over the place fighting for great candidates. Im fighting for great candidates. You see whats going on. You see this horrible, horrible, radical group of Democrats. You see it happening right now. And theyre determined to take back power by using any means necessary. You see the meanness, the nastiness.
They dont care who they hurt, who they have to run over in order to get power and control. Thats what they want, is power and control. Were not going to give it to them. Were going to keep it running the way its been running. While Republicans are fighting every day for jobs, safety, opportunity, lack of crime, with them its crime, open borders.
Theyve been on a mission to resist and obstruct, and destroy, and you see that over the last four days. You see it. Its up to each of you, with your precious vote. It is that -- you know in 2016, we have the same thing happening, the same thing. People are going to be very, very surprised. When you win the presidency, in theory, youre not supposed to do great in the midterm, but nobodys ever had a presidency like this, because I won the presidency.
So I won the presidency, which is really "we" won the presidency, and we have the greatest economy that this nation has ever seen, jobs and everything else. So we won - and we have so many things happening that are so good. So we should do well in the midterms. I cant imagine not, but you have to get -- dont be complacent.
The one thing that could happen, and the beautiful thing thats going on over the last few days in the Senate. When you see the anger, when you see people that are angry and mean and nasty and untruthful, when you look at releases and leaks, and then they say: "Oh, I didnt do it, I didnt do it" Remember Dianne Feinstein.
Did you leak- Remember her answer? "Did you leak the document?", "Ahh, ahh, what? No, no. I didnt. Well, wait. One minute. Did we leak-- Oh, No, we didnt." Ill tell you what, that was really bad body language, who knows, maybe she didnt, but that was the worst body language. Ive ever seen. The entire nation has witnessed the shameless conduct of the Democrat Party.
Theyre willing to throw away every standard of decency, justice, fairness and due process to get their way. They dont care how they get it. You see it happening before your eyes. I think its actually an incredible thing thats happening, and I just hope you dont sit home because bad things will happen if you sit home.
So now, the story will be, one wacko. The story will be tomorrow. A major protest greets Donald Trump in the great state of Westminster, one person. He or she I couldnt tell from the back. Lets say it was she, was very easy to get out, right. But this week, America also saw something else. On Thursday, the American people saw the brilliant and really incredible character, quality and courage of our nominee for the United States, Supreme Court Judge Brett Kavanaugh.
True. A vote to confirm Judge Kavanaughs -- a vote to confirm one of the most accomplished legal minds of our time. A jurist with a sterling record of public service - you know, for ten years -- hes a young guy, but for ten years theyve been talking about him longer than that. I didnt know him, but Ive heard about him a lot because they were all saying he should be on the United States Supreme Court.
Thats why I put him up, and -- and I will tell you, I will tell you, I will tell you he has suffered the meanness, the anger. Now, West Virginia, they did a poll, just came out, overall total support for Judge Kavanaugh 58%, total opposed 28%. So its 58%, 28% oppose, thats pretty good, right? I think thats good.
Thats West Virginia. Republican, 81% versus 8%, that we expect. Wow. Women, 52% to 35%. West Virginia, 65% to 21%. Thats good, right? Its a poll, but we love those polls. I love polls, only when theyre good. When theyre not good I dont talk about it. But they do a lot of -- see this, theres the fake news media, they do a lot of -- They do a lot of -- they do a lot phony polls.
They do a lot of phony polls, they do a lot of polls, they call them suppression polls, they make a bad -- Although our polls now are good, theyre good because were doing a lot of good work, but they make them bad, so you go to a movie instead of voting, you say: "Well, you know, Alice, lets go to a movie, then well come home and watch the returns." Well, Ill tell you what, in 2016 nobody went to a movie.
Nobody. I think the movie theaters were very empty that night. Dont you think? So, so great things are happening, but a vote for Judge Kavanaugh is also a vote to reject the ruthless and outrageous tactics of the Democrat Party. Mean obstructionists, mean resistors, for the last 18 months. Democrats have spent every minute trying to overturn the results of the last election.
We had one of the great -- we had one of the great -- every day its like a job. Its like part of your job description, get up and fight them, get up and fight them. They try and shut down our government. Theyre holding up 360 men and women who want to work for the government, theyre not approving them, and they are highly qualified, and theyre not even called nominees, theyre not even controversial.
These are people -- it is, you know the word slow walking? Theyre slow walking. So you have people trying to get in. Theyve left their jobs and Schumer, and all of the groups that you read about are not allowing these people to come into government, and Im not even talking about people with a certain view, Im talking about people that are noncontroversial, including judges, they just go maximum 30 days, 30 days.
If somebody is going to be approved, it has to be approved, they take a -- were up to 360 people, and its been that way. The longest in the history of our country, think of it, by far, and the most people in this -- you have the longest and the most people. Honestly, the Democrats are a disgrace, they are, they are a disgrace.
And the number one enabler of the Democrats is the fake news media right back there. And they really do, they stoke the fires of resentment and chaos. They report incorrect news. They report phony news, and you know, when I say -- when I say and come out with very, very strong statements about media, Im talking about the fake news media.
They are truly an enemy of the people, the fake news, enemy of the people. They really are. They are so bad. You dont even get it. You think like low taxes, youd think that, like a strong military, no crime, strong borders, they dont, they dont. This November 6, you have a chance to reject these disgraceful political hacks, but you can only do it, you got to vote Republican, I mean, we have good people.
I want to get along with them, but its impossible in many ways. Its just really tough because they are so far left. They have been taken so far left, where Pocahontas is now considered a conservative in the Democrat Party. Shes like a conservative person, Pocahontas Elizabeth Warren, shes considered like a conservative person.
These people are -- theyve gone crazy, theyve gone loco. Were joined today by many terrific Republican leaders, including a friend of mine, and I have to tell you, Big Jim, hes, the biggest human being, I think, Ive ever seen. Big Jim Justice, do we like him? Hes our great Governor. Highest -- listen, this is West Virginia, highest ever -- first quarter surplus history of West -- 125 billion above estimate.
Revenue growth by month July up 24.1%, 14.9%, 16.5%, total revenue growth for West Virginia up 18%. Thank you, President Trump, thank you.
Ill be short -- Ill be short and sweet. Nobody can love this man more than I, except you, maybe. What hes done for West Virginia is off-the-chart. Now weve got to step up to the plate. Weve got to step up, weve got to deliver him, Patrick Morrissey. Weve got deliver him -- we have to deliver him an absolute, solid republican Congress.
Come on now, get behind him. God bless all of you.
Big Jim. Thats a big man, and hes doing a great job. He really is. Hes doing a great job. But look at these numbers. Hey, Jim, for July up 24.1% revenue growth. Think of that. Id tell you, look, you people, you know, you are great to me. We won the state by 42 points. You know what 42 points is? And thats -- in all fairness its not like an independent -- thats against a Democrat.
We won by 42 points. You took me in, you took me in, but I produce, I produce. I produce. These are great people and they love not only the beautiful clean coal. They love lots of other things that were doing well. West Virginia is back a lot faster than even I thought it could happen. You know it. I get a hug backstage by miners.
These guys are massive guys, they grab me. I say, "How would you like to make computer widgets? "Nope, we want to dig coal." Right. They have no interest in little delicate computer parts. So we also have with us the Secretary of State Mac Warner. Thanks, Mac. Great job. A man who, I hope you can support, because hes been terrific, really did a great job as a congressman, and hes going to the Supreme Court.
Hes going to be a justice. Evan Jenkins. Thank you, Evans, got to go and vote for him. A woman that everybody respects, she is running against a total wacko. Now Ive seen this person, you cant have that person in Congress. That person is stone-cold crazy. A person that you know very well, and everybody in West Virginia loves Carol Miller.
Carol? Pennsylvania, thanks, guys. Good luck, Carol. I think youre in great shape from what I hear, I hope so. Pennsylvania State Senator Guy Reschenthaler. Guy. Thank you. Thanks, Guy. Were also thrilled to be joined by Ohio Congressman, a friend of mine from day one, he supported Trump when it wasnt his fashionable, right at the beginning.
He didnt go through nine candidates and then say: "Oh, man, finally Im going to support this guy." We had a couple of them; they never tell me that now. They said: "I supported you from the beginning." This guy really did. Bill Johnson. Right across the water. And Congressman David McKinley. Great job, David.
We like David, right? I like David. Thank you. Thank you, fellas. Also joining us is Brooke County, West Virginia native, a good friend of mine and somebody who truly knows about winning. This guys a real winner. Coach Lou Holtz. Folks, great guy, hes a great coach, but hes a great guy too. Finally, Im honored to introduce the person.
We are all here to support the next senator from the great State of West Virginia. Somebody whos going to give us a vote for what we want every single time. There wont be any question about it, Patrick Morrisey. Patrick, please come up, Patrick.
Well, thank you, President Donald Trump. Thank you, Governor Justice. Thanks to this amazing crowd, for this very warm welcome. Now, tell you, this guy really is making America great again, and we know -- we know hes also making West Virginia great again. Now for far too long, Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, a Washington liberal Joe Manchin, all of these individuals, and the coastal elites they abandoned are West Virginia values.
They practice political correctness, they advance liberal policies, they didnt put America first. But, fortunately, for all of us, there was one candidate, one man willing to fight back against political correctness and put America first, Donald J. Trump. This election, West Virginia has a very big decision to make.
You could go back to the values of those who abandoned West Virginia, Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama or Joe Manchin, or you can stand with someone who puts you first, America first, and West Virginia first. The stakes in this election couldnt be higher, and the differences between myself and my opponent, dishonest Washington liberal, Joe Manchin, they couldnt be sharper.
Guys, you have a choice. If you vote for Patrick Morrisey, you will be electing a conservative fighter with a record of results, who will advance the Trump jobs agenda. Vote for dishonest Washington liberal, Joe Manchin, youre gonna be empowering that same group of radical liberal obstructionist, the one you saw in the Senate circus this past week.
Now, now, dishonest Washington liberal Joe Manchin -- Joes got to go. Amen, brother. Now, dishonest Washington, liberal Joe Manchin has a history of abandoning West Virginia. He abandoned your gun rights, supporting Obamas radical gun control. He abandoned your values on life, backing planned parenthood.
He abandoned your paychecks when he said no to the Trump tax cuts. He abandoned you when he supports amnesty, and when he opposed Trumps border wall. But were going to build that wall. Were gonna build that wall. But it gets worse, Joe Manchin supported Hillary Clinton even after, hang on, even after she made clear, she wanted to take away our coal, our oil, and our gas jobs.
Shame on Joe Manchin. And thats why liberal Joes gotta go. Now, when Im in the Senate, were going to have a different approach. Were going to put West Virginia first. Were going to fight against all those unlawful and illegal regulations that hold that job creators. Like the one I defeated as your attorney general and the ones that President Trump is withdrawing.
Were going to -- were going to ignite the economy even more, well supercharge West Virginia. Well make the Trump tax cuts permanent, and were going to re-empower the people of The State of West Virginia with term limits to hold Washington politicians accountable. Well stop the funding of Planned Parenthood and well take -- yeah, we will.
And were going to take back our West Virginia values and end the grunt grabs by the Liberals in Washington. And not insignificantly, well all stand for the national anthem. But I need your help. Were getting a lot of support from President Trump, in fact, because of his last trip, were basically even in the polls, but we have a lot more work to do against the wily ways of these Washington politicians.
I need you to get involved. I need you to volunteer. I need you to go online, at patrickmorrisey.com and donate and help me close the gap against the liberal ATM machine of Chuck Schumer and Joe Manchin. This race will likely decide the balance of power in the Senate, amen, brother, but remember those radicals in Washington, Schumer, Pelosi, Maxine Waters, and Joe Manchin, ooh, yes, they dont want to see our President succeed.
They want to obstruct just like they did this week against Judge Kavanaugh. Ladies and gentlemen, we must confirm, Judge Kavanaugh. Its time to join our team today, because Joes got to go. Hes got to go. Its my honor to stand with President Trump to fight for you. We, unlike Joe Manchin, Hillary Clinton, and the radical liberals, will never abandon our American and our West Virginia values.
and the one thing you will know is that, together, this team, were going to continue making America great again, and well make West Virginia great again. Thank you very much. God bless you.
Thank you, wow. Good job, Patrick. Thank you Patrick. Remember this, a vote for Patrick Morrissey is a vote to stand up for West Virginia values, right. A vote for Morrisey is a vote for me and for our agenda to make America great again or, as we will soon start saying, keep America great, right?
Keep America. Keep America great. That will be our new theme very soon. I dont -- I dont want to switch yet, were not even into two years, right? Make America Great Again. I cant use it in 2020. We cant because, by that time, if we go even like half of what weve done so were going to have the new and Keep America Great its a very important election.
It will decide which party controls the United States Senate. A Democrat, controlled Senate will try to take away your Second Amendment, theyre, going to take it away. They want to takeover American healthcare and destroy it. They want to make us Venezuela, thats what they want to do. Youll have Venezuela, a big version, erase Americas borders.
You know we fight for borders, but we -- hey, by the way, see the signs? "Finish the wall." Thats a good -- Finish the wall. We are in the process. Its got another billion six, I want to get more, but its coming. Its coming. Weve built a lot of wall already and fixed a lot of wall, but we get that. Its not the easiest thing, because the Democrats know its a thing we really want.
Its very much of a signature, its very big part of what we talked about. They get in the way. I know it for a fact. They said, we cant. Well get things that are actually military, 700 billion and 716 billion, we get that. A wall is a tiny thing by comparison, but they want to fight that wall for political purposes, but were building it. And I love the signs "Finish it.", well get it finished.
They want to kill and this will happen, as sure as youre standing or sitting, I dont know who has a better seat. you are you? I mean, this is a guarantee. Your coal mines and your miners are working. They will kill West Virginia coal, thats a guarantee. And they want to turn our federal courts into the political arm of the Democrat resistance.
You see it, you see it. Now, Joe Manchin voted, no on tax cuts for American families. He just voted no. What are you going to say? He voted no on removing Obamas job killing regulations. By the way, weve got more regulation, thats why you have all these jobs, record-setting jobs, more regulations than any President ever in the history of our country.
Thats pretty good. Thats pretty good. And we havent been there for two years, but time is flying, isnt it? Time is flying, but weve cut more than any administration whether it was four years, eight years, or in one case much more than that. Weve cut more Joe, also voted. No on repealing and replacing Obamacare, which we almost had done but Ill be nice now, we couldnt get a single Democrat vote.
If we did, we would have killed it. We would have had great healthcare, but were giving you a lot of great healthcare anyway. If you look at the plans, were coming out with a great -- and we got rid of the individual mandate, the worst part of Obamacare. And Joe voted yes on something that not too many people in this room like, mass amnesty, mass amnesty.
Joe refuse to stand up to the Democrat resistance, the radical open border dams. Pelosi and their new de facto leader, the legendary Maxine Waters. The Democrat Party will stop at nothing to run your lives, run down your values and ransack our nations wealth. Weve never done like this. They will turn it around, make it bad so fast getting money for the military was so tough, and to do that, we had to give them money for things that we dont want.
We would never want, but now we have our military rebuilding, weve taken care of our military. Weve got a massive number of fighter jets and rockets and missiles; we make the greatest military equipment in the world. We have ordered so much that other countries look at us and they say: "Ahh, lets forget about them." Thats what we want.
We dont want wars. But the only way you dont have wars. If you have a military, thats what were doing were in the process of building the strongest military weve ever had by far. The new platform of the Democrat Party. You notice I say Democrat Party? I hate the way it sounds thats why I say it because its really their name, you know.
Its not the Democratic Party that doesnt sound it flows nicer. The Democratic Party, but you know, the real name is the Democrat Party. I hate the way it sounds and thats why I use it, but its still a real name. The Democrat Party -- so when you see Democratic Party, its wrong. Theres no name Democratic Party, thats a great name.
They should probably change the name, if you think about it. Then Id call them The Democratic Party. The Democrat Party is radical socialism, Venezuela, and open borders. Its now called, to me -- youve never heard this before, The Party of Crime. Its a Party of Crime, its what it is. And to pay for their socialism, which is going to destroy our country.
Democrats want to raid Medicare and destroy Social Security. So, whats going to happen? Democrats want to completely destroy Medicare with so-called Medicare for all. Yeah, for about two months before the country goes out of business. Robbing our seniors of the benefits they paid into for their entire lives, giving it to people that dont deserve it. Giving it, by the way, to illegal aliens who come into our country.
Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors, who have earned it and paid for it, and I will always fight for, and always protect patients with pre-existing conditions. You have to do it. You have to do it. some people think thats not a Republican thing to do. I dont care. And Ill tell you what, all of the Republicans are coming into that position now, all of them, and well do it the right way.
Pre-existing conditions are safe. OK, just remember that. Pre-existing -- tell that to the fake news media when they write. Fakers. The Fakers. But we all have a good time. You know they can all endorsed me for the next election, have you heard? Because if they dont and if for some reason I didnt win, every single media outlet goes bankrupt.
Can you imagine? Can you imagine if they had to cover Crazy Bernie, who the hell is going to watch? Or any of them? How about Cory Booker did you watch the performance? He ran in Newark New Jersey into the ground and now he wants to be president, right? What was the moment he said he had? I dont think so. I think we take Kirk Douglas in his prime.
Do we agree? I think we did. No, he ran Newark into the ground, now hes out there acting, "Oh, its so wonderful, great. Oh, I dream of these people every night. The only thing I worry about is that some total unknown that nobody ever heard of comes along, but you know what, honestly, with what weve done on jobs on our country and our military, were going to talk about our veterans what weve done.
Look, in your case, energy, energy, look what weve done in energy with every -- Who the hell can beat us? I mean, who can beat us? Who can beat us? One of these people said recently, and they hated to say it, but the Trump has actually fulfilled more promises than he promised. Its true. Look what were doing.
4.2% GDP, every point is $3.5 trillion dollars and 10 million jobs. And when I took it over, our country was headed south we were going down, we were going down, youd be, instead of 4.2%, youd be at 4.2% negative, negative 4.2% Thats the way we were headed. Perhaps nothing is more dangerous than the Democrats push to abolish, very brave people that work for us, and they love us and take care of us called ICE.
They want to abolish immigration enforcement entirely and they want no borders, they want no borders, let everybody just flow into our country. And he got some bad dudes coming in, but theyre not coming in with us. We have set records on arrests at the borders. Nobody even close, and thats without the wall in those sections where we havent been able to get the money because the Democrats wont approve.
You have to understand, we have very small margins. You know they say were the majority. The majority by what? If somebody has a cold, we cant take a vote. If you have a cold, if somebody is not feeling well, we say: "Lets delay the vote for three days." We dont have a major -- its so close. Its so close.
Thats why we have to get more Republicans in. We will do something that nobody has ever seen before. The Democrat Party supports, totally, they love them sanctuary cities where crime pours in and they protect her. That unleash violent predators like MS-13 into American communities, leaving innocent Americans at the mercy of really, by the way, really ruthless animals, really ruthless animals Nancy Pelosi said, "How dare he call a human being an animal?" Im sorry Nancy.
These are the words, theyre dont like guns, they like to use knives because its more painful and it takes a long time. These are real bad people and were bringing them out so fast. And you know whos doing it? Whos leading the charge, who loves doing it? ICE. Who the hell wants that job? ICE. ICE is doing the job, right?
Right. ICE is doing that job. These are brave people. They go into towns in Long Island, where I grew up, right next to these places, I know them all. They used to be, youd leave your door open, youd, leave your window open. You go to sleep, nobody thinks. Now you -- its like a fort, but not anymore.
Whats happened, is they go in like theyre, liberating a country. Its like this is the United States, and ICE goes in and MS-13 theyre afraid of ICE. You know why, because ICE is much tougher than they are, thats all they fear. And they go in and they grab them by the necks and they throw them the hell into a paddy wagon and they take them either to jail, and throw them the hell out of the country, its very simple.
Its very simple. And they cleaned out towns, they cleaned out towns of truly bad people, dangerous people. You saw what happened, I got to know mothers that have daughters, fathers that have daughters. In many cases, daughters, and in many cases, sons, but what they do to these incredible kids, walking home from school, going home with books to study and do homework and they intercept them and theyre -- theyre horrible, its horrible and were getting them out.
But we have to re -- the Democrats. Its like, its like, they dont even understand that theres a problem, its incredible. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. So Republicans, not Democrats, they want to end ICE, they want to end a lot of things.
Open borders. Can you believe it? How would you like this platform? We want open borders. We want high taxes, we want crime because basically, theyre saying crime, so to have crime, they have high taxes, they have open borders. Oh, and by the way - and we dont want to fund the military. You have no idea how hard it is to get money from for the military, its almost impossible.
That was like a full- time job, but we got that money. We got a lot of buyers. In the Democrats, got 51 votes in the Senate. They would open our nations borders. They would starve our law enforcement, they would starve our great law -- Do we love our law enforcement? Seriously. Ive got a tremendous percentage of law enforcement vote, but you know, I think, I might have -- Do I get 100%. Lets say I didnt. Who the hell wouldnt vote for me from law enforcement?
OK, weve done a lot. Weve gotten a lot of surplus material from the military. You know, we had all this -- We had hundreds of millions of dollars of surplus material, and our previous administration, under no circumstances did they want to give this to law enforcement, because you know its great equipment.
It keeps the law enforcement safe, like trucks that are armored and things like that, so they didnt want to give it because they thought it presented a wrong image. I gave it, its all out, theyre all happy. We had a military, we had a sitting in storage rooms all over the country, getting old and probably costing us a lot of money.
We gave it out to law enforcement and law enforcement does like us. If you want to secure our border. If you want to stop sanctuary cities, which even in California now. They dont want to be sanctuary cities anymore, they want out. You see it. Theyre rebelling in California, of all places, theyre rebelling.
If you want to protect American communities from really bad bad crime, then you need to vote Republican, Patrick Larson. Gotta vote Republican. This election is about security, and its about prosperity. Here are just some of our extraordinary achievements. Weve done things that nobody can believe. If I would have used these numbers during the campaign, the fake news wouldve said: "Oh, its so ridiculous, its so ridiculous." "How can he say that." I used much lower numbers than they said that.
Economic growth last quarter was 4.1%, and it was just adjusted upward 4.2%, and its going much -- its going higher, folks. Its going a lot higher. Jobless claims. Thats a beauty. Jobless. Think of that. Jobless claims just fell to a nearly 50-year low. Is that good? Thats good, right? Weve created over 4 million new jobs since the election, four million.
Nobody would have said. If I would have said, "Hey, were going to create in less than two years, they would have said, "Youve got to be kidding." Weve list -- Look at this. Weve lifted almost 4 million Americans off of food stamps. Wow. Pretty bad, huh. Now, No.1, were taking care of people. No. 2, it doesnt cost us anything.
I mean, that four million people thats a lot of money at cause. Weve added, nearly, it will soon be 600,000 new manufacturing jobs. We werent supposed to be adding jobs. We werent supposed to be adding manufacturing jobs. And Ill tell you what. The most incredible of everything is, we are doing things with manufacturing.
Companies are pouring back into our country and theyre coming back into your state. Theyre, going to Michigan, theyre going to Ohio, right here, theyre going to Pennsylvania and North Carolina, and South Carolina. I was with the Prime Minister Abe of Japan. Hes got many companies moving in, I said: "Look, we have a big deficit with you, we take care of your military and we have a deficit." Whats going on? He said, "We are moving many companies into the United States.
And he is. And hes been. And many cou -- If you look, just take a look. Many countries are doing that because I dont like having deficits with every country. And China, were taking them on very strongly. First time ever. Very Strongly. And they either open it up to make it fair and dont charge us what theyre doing, because thats no good, or we just dont do business with them, its a very simple thing.
And in four months theyve gone way down and I dont want them to go way down. I have great respect for President Xi and I have great respect for China, but they have not treated as well. We lost over the years $500 billion, wed go $250 billion, $300 billion, $400 billion, $500 billion, $525 billion. We rebuild China.
How stupid are we? No, h0w stupid are we. We build a car and we send it to China and they charge a tariff for a tax of 25%. They build a car and they send it to the U.S and its two and a half percent, but we dont charge them. They dont have to pay, and I said, "Why dont they have to pay at least a two and a half?" Nobody could tell me why.
Nobody so think of it. They charge us 25%, right? We charge them nothing. Other than that, its a very fair deal. Now, how stupid is -- how stupid is it? So the stupid days are over, folks, Im sorry. I mean, I love Saudi Arabia. Theyre great. King Salman, I talked to him this morning, a long talk. And I said to him, "King, youve got trillions of dollars, without us Who knows what going to happen?
Maybe youre not going to be able to keep those airplanes, because you know what? Theyd be attacked. With us, they are like, you know, safe, totally safe. But we dont get what we should be getting were subsidizing their military. So let me ask you a question: "Why are we subsidizing the military of these really wealthy--" You know, one thing where countries are in deep trouble and danger, and its a horrible thing going on, and it could be something really ugly and you know hundreds of thousands, millions of people could be killed, thats one thing.
But when you have wealthy countries like Saudi Arabia like Japan, like South Korea, why are we subsidizing that military? Theyll pay us. The problem is nobody ever asked. Nobody ever asked. They dont ask. I mean, with South Korea were paying about 60% of their military costs. Theyd buy a missile system -- Oh, by the way, were doing great with North Korea.
I have just told you. Were doing -- You know these dishonest people back there. So I left. What did I do? Was there like, three months ago. So for 80 years, theyve been working on this stuff, and for twenty five years theyve been working on missiles and nuclear. They got nowhere. They wouldnt even answer our Presidents phone calls when they called they told them, "Dont call us." And yes, I agree.
The rhetoric was unbelievably harsh at the beginning, but we have a very good relationship. We were going to war with North Korea. That was what was going to happen. Millions of people would have been killed. President Obama told me when I sat just before taking office. He said the single biggest problem this country has is North Korea.
And he said he was, you know, very close to going to war, but fortunately his time was up. That his time is up. He would have been in a war. Millions of people would have been killed. I mean, you have sold 30 million people right off the border 30 miles away. Millions of people would have been -- and yes, I came in and took a very hard position, very hard position.
And you know what now we have this great relationship and lets see what happens, lets see what happens lets see what happens, but if you think, so the fakers are saying like, they dont know what to do? I got the hostages back for nothing. Obama paid $1.8 billion. You know I got it back for nothing, right?
We got the remains of our great heroes back for many, many years. You dont have any more nuclear testing, in fact, theyre closing up a lot of the sites. You dont have rockets going up, you dont have missiles going up and you have people -- I like him. He likes me. I guess thats OK, am I allowed to say that?
Am I allowed to say? Weve come a long way since you know the term, right? Weve come a long way, but we could have been in something. Now Im not saying, whats going to happen? Who knows. Are we going to have another meeting? Chairman Kim would like to have another meeting. We have a meeting. You know they did?
The other day on a good network or head -- ne of the anchors say: "Why has President Trump given up so much?" I didnt give up anything. Really. I didnt give up anything. What did I give up? I gave up nothing. Why have I give it up -- The only thing that I gave up was I agreed to meet. Boy why we lost a lot, right?
In the other words I agreed to meet. I gave up nothing they are just fakers. They dont know what to do. Its driving them crazy, theyre, loco, its driving them crazy. We gave up so much. Now Obama, with the Iran deal, gave them $150 billion dollars and gave $1.8 billion in cash, in cash, in cash. You know how much money that is? And nobody said he gave up too much, except me. Thats why I ended the deal.
OK. I ended it. I gave it to him in cash. You see like with a promotion we have a hundred dollar bills. You have a million dollars. Its like twice the size of this thing. Thats for a million bucks in a hundred dollar bills, right. Its twice the size of the podium, like exactly twice the size. Can you imagine $1.8 billion.
Where the hell do you get $1.8 billion in cash? And dont let anyone tell you it wasnt for the hostages unless he had something or maybe he did have something else in mind. So we are doing great. That was a big, big problem. And you know the interesting? When I did it and I was really being tough, and so was he. I would go back and forth and then we fell in love.
OK, no really. He wrote me beautiful letters and had great letters. We fell in love, but you know what now theyll make us sick. "Donald Trump said, they fell in love, how horrible? How horrible is that?" So unpresidential. and I always tell you its so easy to be Presidential, but instead of having 10,000 people outside trying to get into this packed arena, wed have about 200 people standing right there.
OK, its so easy to be Presidential. All I have to do is thank you very much for being here, ladies and gentlemen. Its great to see you. Youre great Americans. Thousand points of light, which nobody has really figured out, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, hasnt that been exciting? How is West Virginia?
And in the meantime, everything seems to be dying. Youre cold and everything else. No, no weve got to keep it going the way its going. Do we agree? Do we agree? Get Patrick in there. We got to keep it going because we have something going that nobodys ever seen before. You know every foreign leader that comes to see me in the White House, which I see a lot but every foreign lead -- and I see a lot because usually theyre treating us unfairly with military, meaning, were paying for their military and Im saying.
Why? Because were we doing all of that. Were not going to do it. I said: "Saudi Arabia, youre rich youve got to pay for your military." Well take care of -- Well be good. Youve got to pay for your military. Sorry, nobody ever asked the question. And I have generals, you know its called the military industrial complex.
Theyre great people, theyre warriors but theyre not into the world of finance, so I say, General, how much are they paying for this? He say, "Sir, we are paying for it." "Why?" "Sir, were paying, because they are our allies?" I said, "Yeah, but why else?" "Sir, trade." I said, "Yeah, we lost $100 billion last year on trade with this.
Why are we doing this?" And people slowly but surely, Im telling you, big difference. And you see GDP numbers now at 4.2%. When we straighten out these horrible trade deals -- these horrible military deals that we have, forget it. Off the charts. Household income, among Hispanic-Americans, has just set a new record-high, think of that.
Income. Since my election, and youve heard this many times, Im very proud of it, because I used to go around saying what you have to lose vote for me instead of a Democrat, right? Vote for me, African-American, Hispanic-American, Asian-America unemployment have all reached the lowest levels ever recorded in our history, right?
The poverty rates for African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans. Its been incredible. Theyve all reached their lowest levels in the history of our country. Think of it. Now who the hell is going to beat me? I mean, Im saying African-Americans have the lowest unemployment rate in history. Why would somebody do well?
I think, and we have Kanye West. We have a lot of support. Big Jim Brown, How about Big Jim Brown? How good was he? If he was playing today, hed make a trillion dollars and hed stand for the flag too, Id tell you. I know him. Great. Unemployment for Americans without high-school diplomas. Thats a big thing.
Recently reached the lowest rate ever recorded. The womens unemployment rate in the United States recently reached its lowest rate in over 65 years. This is something that is personal to you and some other states. We repeal President Obamas federal coal moratorium. We ended the cold, crushing stream protection rule which was killing you, it sounded so beautiful.
The EPA, so-called a killer. Clean power plan, it was a killer. It was costing this country a fortune. It was a total killer. Has such nice names such a nice title? It put everybody out of business and it took away our strength, it took away our wealth and I withdrew the United States from the job killing, very unfair and very, very expensive Paris climate accord, another one that -- A killer.
These are killers. They were putting our country out of business. Weve ended the war on beautiful, clean coal and in just the last year, our coal exports have skyrocketed. This is exports to other countries by 66%. You believe that? The United States is now the No. 1 energy producer in the world. That happened just recently.
A lot of money in that. Were fixing the one sided trade deals that have stolen American jobs, drained American wealth. Its been a massive transfer of wealth, out of our country, were bringing it all back. Theyre all coming back. Weve reached the deal to replace the horrible NAFTA. One of the worst trade deals ever.
With a brand new U.S-Mexico trade deal, and well see what happens with Canada, if they come along, good. They have to --they have to be fair. They have -- right now, they have tariffs over 300% on dairy products. Thats like a barrier. They have to be fair, but weve made the deal with Mexico and its a great deal for both countries.
NAFTA was the worst deal. Just this week, I signed a groundbreaking new trade deal with South Korea that will dramatically increase exports of American made goods. I said, "You got to open up your country. Now the Democrats will look at any of these deals." They wont read them, they wont know anything about them.
Theyll just say, "I guess Id do it. If I was tempt to." Theyll say, What do you think of that? "Its no good, its terrible." "Oh, have you read it?" "Dont ask me that question" These deals are unbelievable. These deals are so good for us. Youre not going to have companies leaving our country, firing everybody and then selling their product back into the United States with no taxes.
Not going to happen anymore. And thanks to our very strong position on tariffs, because I want them to negotiate with us. Weve saved American aluminum and American steel companies they are thriving. American steel is building plants all over the country, steel workers are back and the miners are supplying the metallurgic coal.
We dont need foreign steel, what happens if were in a conflict? What are we going to do? Get our steel from some foreign country? Oh, by the way we have -- we need steel, we need aluminum. There are certain things you need and were hiring a lot of people, and you know what? Our treasury is getting loaded up with money, because billions of dollars will be flowing in because we charge 25% when they dump.
You know, when they dump steel? What they want to do is put our steel companies out of business, then they sell us steel at prices that are so high, nobody wants to talk about that. Nobody wants to talk about the jobs created, and nobody wants to talk about all the money thats flowing in to the coffers of the United States of America.
They dont like to talk about it. And the people that are against it are usually having con -- you know, you go to these other countries, they have companies there too, and many of these people, "Well, we like free trade." So Ill say even to congressmen and senators, "Let me ask you a question." So we have a country take India, good relationship.
They want to make a deal now because they dont want me to do what Im going if I have to. So they call us they didnt want to make a deal with anybody else. So take India, so youre talking about free trade. So lets say they charge us 60% tariff on a product and for the same products when they send it in we charge them nothing.
So now I want to charge them 25%, or 20%, or 10% or something. What do you think? "Thats not free trade. We dont like it." I said, "Where are these people coming from?" No, think of it. Where are they coming from, and you have no idea how difficult it is? Where are they coming -- so India just uses as an example, I could give you others that are brutal.
Just brutal what they do to us, how they take advantage of the stupidity. We never even had people negotiating, they just do whatever they want, but take India. So they charge you 60%, right, 60%. We charge them nothing, and when I say Im going to put a 25% tariff on just to make it a little bit fair. They say, "Thats not free trade." I said, "What -- what do you -- where you come from?" Remember this, a lot of the people that are fighting me and what Im doing have ownership of companies in these other countries.
Remember that, please. Remember that. Or theyre represented by lobbies, so the steel people love me. The coal people love me. Many people love me. You know who loves me? Our country has never done better. Thats who loves me. Crazy. So to give our workers and businesses, just on finishing up. A level playing field Republicans passed the biggest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history.
We pass something else that I love, right to try. You know the right to try is? Thats where somebody is terminally ill. We have a pipeline of some of the greatest products and we couldnt get up, we couldnt use them. A persons going to die in four months, we couldnt use them. For 45 years, Ive been trying to get this passed.
Not that easy, not that easy. I got to pass. Yeah, right to try. Somebody is terminally ill. They can take now -- they have to sign that clause in things and they -- Now, dont have to travel to parts of the world. We passed veterans choice, giving us Veterans Choice, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor if theyre standing in line for four weeks, right.
They couldnt get it passed. This has been going on for 45 years. They couldnt get it passed. Veterans are greatest people. These are people -- Any veterans here? Veterans? It was very tough, 45years they couldnt, we got it passed. So now, instead of waiting on line for three weeks and dying, in many cases believe it or not, they start of theyre, OK, they wait so long to see a doctor, they end up becoming terminal, they end up dying.
They now go out and see a doctor. We pay the bill, its great. Passed. We passed. We also passed the landmark V.A. Accountability Act, so that all these bad players that were in the V.A we fire them so fast. When that bad, you didnt have the right to fire anybody, they could do anything. I just signed legislation to completely, completely rebuild all of our military.
And I told you about that, and you know what, its so important to me, so important to me, so important. We have tanks, we have ships, we have everything, so important. And at my direction at the Pentagon is working right now, as we speak, to create a sixth branch of the United States, Armed Forces called the Space Force, right?
I went through the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran deal. and Iran is not the same country right now, folks. And they better not do nuclear, they better not. That same country, weve all recognized the true capital of Israel. Recently, when I opened the American embassy in Jerusalem, and Ive just come from a tremendously successful trip, Ive done a lot of trips from the United Nations to Saudi Arabia, to China, to UK, European Union all over the world, and every one of those means a lot of jobs that a lot of income coming into our country that nobody ever did before, nobody ever did it. I made clear that we will never sacrifice Americas sovereignty to unelected, unaccountable foreign bureaucrats.
Im not going to do it. We reject the ideology of globalism and we embrace that doctrine -- you know what Im saying? The doctrine of -- Lets put it this way, we love our country, thats our doctrine. You can call it patriotism, but its really the doctrine of we love our country. For years you watch as your leaders apologize for America.
Now you have a President who is standing up for America. We are standing up for your values. We are standing up for West Virginia. We are standing proudly for our national anthem to continue our momentum, to protect your family, and your borders, your constitution and your country. You need to get your friends, get your family, get your co-workers and get out and vote for Patrick Morrisey, get out and vote Republican.
And if you are registered, to register right now, youve got to register here, and the deadline to register is October 16. Hate to break this by saying that, but those are the facts. Register. October 16. Loyal citizens like you, helped build this country and together, and together we are taking back our country and returning power to where it belongs to the American people.
This great state was built by tough pioneer men and strong pioneer women. These brave West Virginia patriots ventured out into the wilderness and up into the mountains to build a beautiful home, a life and a dream. They didnt have a lot of money. They didnt have a lot of luxury, but they all had one thing in common: They love their families, they love their country and they love their god.
True. True. We stand on the shoulders of these courageous Americans. Your ancestors did not pour out their blood, sweat and tears so that we could sit at home, while others try to erase their legacy and destroy our proud American heritage. Thats what the Democrats are trying to do with their crazy policies.
Just like the pioneers and patriots who came before us. We are going to work, were going to fight and were going to win for our families, for our flag, and for our freedom. The revolution that you began in 2016 and it was the revolution, and even these people will admit that that was a revolution like theyve never seen before.
That was a revolution that was -- they came from the hills and they came from the valleys, they came from everywhere. And at the end of that evening, they said, "Hate to tell you this. A lot of bad things are happening tonight for the Democrats." That was one of the great evenings, not because of me, but because of you.
That was one of the great evenings in the history of our country. And its far from over. Its only just beginning, we will not bend, we will not break, we will never give in. We will never give up, we will never back down, we will never surrender and we will always fight on to victory, victory, victory.
