Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Meets With Argentinian President Mauricio Macri|April 27,2017
First time in the Oval Office for the President and Mrs. Macri. And its a great, great honor to have them here. Hes been my friend for many years. Weve known each other for long, prior to politics. And who would have thought this was going to happen --
-- for both of us. But he is a great, wonderful person, and he will be a great President of Argentina, I have absolutely no doubt. Absolutely no doubt.
Were just going to be great friends, better than ever before. And were off to a wonderful start, because Ive known Mauricio for so many years, and I know the kind of person he is. Hes a great person and hes a great leader. He will do a fantastic job for Argentina. And I feel very comfortable backing him, because they need certain things from the United States. I feel very comfortable backing him because I know what Im backing. Im backing a man who loves his people and loves his country.
I know about all the lemons. And believe it or not, the lemon business is a big, big business.
But we are going to give that very serious consideration. One of the reasons hes here is about lemons --  -- and Ill tell him about North Korea, and hell tell me about lemons. I think that were going to be very favorably disposed. Were going to be talking.
Venezuela is a mess. Venezuela is a mess.
Well, I was going to terminate NAFTA as of two or three days from now. The President of Mexico, who I have a very, very good relationship, called me, and also the Prime Minister of Canada, who I have a very good relationship. And I like both of these gentlemen very much. They called me and they said, rather than terminating NAFTA, could you please renegotiate?
I like them very much. I respect their countries very much. The relationship is very special. And I said, I will hold on the termination; lets see if we can make it a fair deal. Because NAFTA has been a horrible deal for the United States. Its been very good for Canada, its been very good for Mexico, but its been horrible for the United States.
And if you check my campaign -- any of my speeches -- I said, Ill either renegotiate or Ill terminate. So they asked me to renegotiate -- I will. And I think well be successful in the renegotiation, which, frankly, would be good because it would be simpler. But we have to make a deal thats fair for the United States. They understand that. And so I decided rather than terminating NAFTA, which would be a pretty big shock to the system, we will renegotiate.
Now, if Im unable to make a fair deal, if Im unable to make a fair deal for the United States, meaning a fair deal for our workers and our companies, I will terminate NAFTA. But were going to give renegotiation a good, strong shot. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you very much.
