Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Reno, NV|October 5, 2016
Thank you. Boy, this is some crowd.
No matter where we go, theres a great movement going on. Theyve never seen anything like it. We are going to do something very special. In 34 days, we are going to win this state, we are going to win back the White House.
America is going to start winning again. Were going to start winning again.
Were going to make America rich again. We have no choice, we have to do it if were going to do what else we have to do. But were going to make our country rich again. Were not going to let other countries and other leaders take advantage of this country any longer.
And all you have to do is take a look at that ridiculous deal we made with Iran, $1.7 billion in cash, $150 billion.
We didnt get anything.
Im going to end illegal immigration.
Stop the massive inflow of refugees, keep jobs from pouring out of our country, and they are pouring out, renegotiate our disastrous trade deals and massively reduce taxes and regulations.
Taxes are too high, the regulations are crazy.
Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and she hasnt done a thing. All she does is talk. I keep saying, why dont you change it? Youve been there!
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Lets win November 8th, right? Lets win on November 8th.
The problems we face as a country as immense and its going to take bold action to turn things around. And by the way, didnt Mike Pence do a great job?
Great. Hes our guy. What a great guy he is, too.
Right now, we owe $20 trillion in debt. It doubled under President Obama. Think of it, seven-and-a-half years it doubled.
Our infrastructure is like that of a third-world country. The homicide rate last year experienced the biggest, single-year increase in 45 years. Nobody tells you that. Heroin overdoses are surging and meth overdoses in Nevada -- Nevada. And you know what I said? You know what I said? I said when I came out here, I said nobody says it the other way, it has to be Nevada, right?
And if you dont say it correctly -- and it didnt happen to me, but it happened to a friend of mine, he was killed.
But think of it. Meth overdoses in Nevada are up 22 percent -- 22 percent. Thousands of refugees are being admitted with no way to screen them and are instantly made eligible for welfare and free health care, even as our own veterans die waiting for medical care that they desperately need. Give me a break! Were going to take care of our veterans. Were going to take care of our veterans.
Our annual trade deficit with the world is nearly $800 billion a year. Who makes these deals? Who makes these deals?
The federal budget is a total and complete disaster. Our State Department, mostly under the watch of crooked Hillary Clinton, misplaced or lost $6 billion in taxpayer funds. How would you like to misplace $6 million?
We have the worst so-called recovery since the Great Depression. On top of it all, our taxpaying citizens send troops and foreign aid all over the world, even as their own cities cant provide the most basic of services.
America needs a turnaround. America needs a comeback. America needs change.
And that change is coming on November 8th, remember. Get out and vote. And you have early balloting here, take advantage of it. Youve got to get out and vote, no matter what happens, no matter how bad you feel, no matter what. Youve heard me say it, you go to the doctor, he gives you the ultimate bad news, its over, in four weeks you wont be around. Who cares? November 8th youve got to get out and vote, right? Youve got to get out and vote.
Im only kidding. Im only kidding. I mean, the one problem if you are sick, Obamacare" is no good so thats ""m only kidding. Im only kidding. I mean

Were going to show the whole world that America is back bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
