Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Elkhart, Indiana|May 10, 2018
So, I want to thank your former governor and your current vice president. And he and Karen are doing an unbelievable job for our nation. Thank you, Mike.  Youre making Indiana proud and we are all making America proud. We are rocking. We are rocking.  So, Im thrilled to be here tonight with the incredible, hardworking patriots of the Hoosier state. Hoosier.
And I dont know if you see whats going on outside, but you have a lot of people outside that want to get in but theyre not getting in because this place is packed. This place is packed.  This is truly an exciting time for our country. Jobs are booming -- remember? I told you.
I told you.  Confidence is soaring and optimism is at the top of every chart. This is a great time for our country. A lot of things happening. Every day we are unlocking new opportunities for prosperity and for peace.
All of these changes are happening because America is being respected again.
At 2 a.m., early this morning...  And by the way, I got back to the White House at 4:30 a.m. and somebody said, Oh, thats OK. You can cancel Indiana tonight.  And I said, You just dont know the people of Indiana.
I dont have the courage to cancel.  But at 2 oclock in the morning I had the incredible honor of greeting three brave Americans who had been held in North Korea. And we welcomed them back home the proper way.  And on June 12th, in Singapore, Ill be meeting with Kim Jong-un to pursue a future of peace and security for the world -- for the whole world.  And the relationship is good. But you remember everybody in the fake news where they were saying, Hes going to get us into a nuclear war.
Hes going to get us into a nuclear war?  And you know what gets you into nuclear wars? And you know what gets you into other wars? Weakness. Weakness.  So the relationship is good. And hopefully, I mean, for all of us, for the world, hopefully, something very good is going to happen.
And they understand its very important for them. Its important for everybody. So Japan, South Korea, China, everybody, I think its going to be a very big success. But my attitude is and if it isnt, it isnt, OK? If it isnt.
It isnt. But -- and you have to have that, because you dont know. Were not going to be talked into an Iran deal where the negotiator, John Kerry, refused to leave the table.  What a deal. What a deal.
But here at home, the great news keeps rolling in: 3.3 million new jobs since election.  Now if during the election -- and by the way, how great is Coach Bobby Knight?  Oh, we love our coach. Remember he came in. He called me before I was running. I didnt know. They said, Bobby Knights on the phone. I said, What does he want with me? I never announced.
I was thinking but I guess he read -- and he said, Mr. Trump I hope youre going to run. I said, Check and see whether or not this is Coach Knight. But actually when I heard that voice I knew it was Coach Knight. You cant duplicate that. And I took his number.
I said, Coach, Im thinking about it. He said, Youre going to -- youre going to win if you -- if you run -- and does he know about winning? And if you run, youre going to win. So anyway I put his number down and I was coming to this area. By that time we had a big lead but they said, Indiana. And a friend of mine said, If you could get Coach Knight, that would be a great thing. I said, You know, he called me like a year ago. Let me see if I can find his number. And on my left I had a pile of papers like this high, and I said, Let me see. I lifted up thousands of pages of junk; some actually pretty important. And I lifted it up and theres this little thing, Bobby Knights cell phone number. Isnt that great?  And I go , and he picks up the phone and he said, Ive been waiting for you to call. Can you believe that? And he came here and we sold out, I dont know what the hell that arena was but it was a big one.
And they went crazy. And Lou Holtz and Coach Cady...  Coach Cady, Lou Holtz, we had them all. Coach -- by the way not from this area but hes one of the greats of all time, Coach Belichick right? Great guy.
We got to love him. Oh, now we love him. We love him. He knows how to win also. But we had a lot of coaches; they like us.
They understand winning and they like us. And thats what weve been doing. And if we would have told you during the campaign that we would create 3.3 million jobs in the short time, everybody back there, the fake news media -- look at all of them.  Theyre fake news. Everybody back there would have said, Can you imagine hes saying were going to create 3.3 million? Can you believe it? We would have been -- but you know what? We understand.
We understand. And -- and today -- today in the history of our country, just came out. Right? We have the most jobs available in the history of our country. Just came out.
I like that.  We like that. We like that a lot. Because we have a truly great country and Ive been promising those kind of numbers.
The unemployment rate is at the lowest level since the turn of the century.  African-American unemployment has reached the lowest level in the history of our country.  Remember I used to read stats, Hispanic, African-American stats. And Id read -- and it said, high crime rate, lousy education, this, this, Id read like six.
And one day in front of a massive crowd, 25,000 to 30,000 people, I said, Vote for me. What the hell do you have to lose? And you know what? They did. They did.  And my people all said, Oh, that was not nice. I said, Its true. Because the Democrats -- who are just obstructionists. Thats all they can do.
The Democrats have had a lock on the Hispanic vote and theyve had a lock on the African-American vote. No longer. No longer.  So the Hispanic unemployment likewise is the lowest -- think of it, in the history -- in the history of our country. Its the lowest. So you have African-Americans, Hispanic, women, women, women. We love women. Women.
The lowest unemployment rate in 18 years. Im sorry we didnt make it in history but were catching -- it will soon happen. Im disappointed with that. Can you imagine? My most disappointing stat is women.
Its the lowest unemployment rate in 18 years because all of the others are history. But I have the feeling the women will soon be history too, because thats whats happening.  And all of the great momentum that were having as a country on jobs, on safety, on security, on our military, its all at stake in November. You know, I dont think weve ever done better as a country, certainly the economy and lots of other things.
Look at all of those beautiful red hats. Those beautiful red hats. Look at them.  Boy oh boy. And I like the white ones too.
Make America great again. Lifts those whites up there. But it can disappear quickly. You know, what we did was unprecedented in the history of our country, really in the history of the world, what we did with this election.
And the strides that were making have never, ever been made like this before. But it can also disappear if you put fools and if you put the wrong people in. It can disappear. I mean, Nancy Pelosi said yesterday...  Nancy Pelosi said yesterday she wants to end the tax cuts and raise your taxes. I said, tell me. Is that like good politics? You know, its not about politics but think of that from a political standpoint. I dont think her party was too happy. But you know what, thats her thought.
Thats what they want to do. They want to raise your taxes, end your tax cuts. They want to have open borders where everyone flies into our country. Thats not happening.
So this week you nominated an incredible slate of Republican candidates, many of whom I know.  And you have to work every day between now and November to elect more Republicans so that we continue making America great again.  And by the way, this is a first for Indiana. Our new slogan for 2020, you know what it is? Keep America Great.  Keep America Great.  Because were doing so well that in another two years when we start to heavy campaign, Make America Great Again wouldnt work out too well, right? Its going to be Keep America Great because thats exactly where were headed.
But dont tell anybody. I dont want anybody to know. We want to save that for a surprise. But I do like that.
And you know what I paid for that slogan. You know, a lot of these people, the politicians they run. They pay millions of dollars for ideas like that. How much did I pay for that? Zippo.
Zippo.  And I have great respect for the process. But in all fairness, Obama -- President Obama...  ... paid $1.8 billion for hostages.
Not me. You -- last night you saw it. And again, its leading to some very big things. And I think that Kim Jong-un -- Kim Jong-un did a great service to himself, to his country by doing this.
But those hostages came out with respect, we didnt pay for them. Were going to set the table. Were going to make a great deal for the world, for North Korea, for South Korea, for Japan, for China.  So what he did was the right thing. But they came out for nothing and the others came out for $1.8 billion in cash.
Can you believe that? Were honored to be joined by a friend of mine and somebody whos done a really, really good job. Somebody thats respected very, very highly, Senator Todd Young. Todd. Wheres Todd?   see? Thats a great politician.
He doesnt even want a good location. He is of the people. Thank you Todd. We also welcome the largest vote winner in Indiana history, except for Trump, Attorney General Curtis Hill. Wheres Curtis?  Good man.
Hes done a great job. A woman who has been of tremendous help on the tax cuts, on getting rid of regulation, which maybe is just as important. Right, Jackie? What do you think? Jackie Walorski. Jackie.
Done a great job. And some congressmen who have been incredible: Larry Bucshon. Wheres Larry? Great job. Congressman Jim Banks.
By the way, somebody that just fought an incredible campaign. A really good guy, and Im not sure I would have been here. You know, were talking two days ago. Very effective, a terrific man, Congressman Todd Rokita.
Thank you, Todd. Great job too. He fought tough. They all fought tough.
That was a tough race. But we have somebody here that won that race but well talk about him in a second. Let me also congratulate two of our new Republican nominees for Congress. First a proud Army veteran, who earned two Purple Hearts, Jim Baird.
Jims going to really do well. Jim.  Great job. And second, a man that I know Mike has been rooting for, for a long time, Ill tell you.
Mike loves his brother, who won by a very big margin. I dont know: Was that a bigger margin than Mike Pence won by? I dont know, Mike. That was a big margin. Greg Pence.
Greg.  Finally a big congratulations for Indianas new Republican nominee for the United States Senate, Mike Braun. That was a good race.  Get up here, Mike.  How about we let Mike for a second interrupt my speech? Is that OK? Come on, Mike.
One of the neatest experiences of my life was spending 30 minutes riding with the president. And you wouldnt believe the advice you get and its great advice. And Im going to incorporate it. Yes.
You know, when I started this journey almost a year ago, I traveled the state, spent a lot of time in the north. And wanted to make sure this was going to end up with a good result. Would not have done it if I wasnt inspired by what this man did in 2016.
He -- he cleared the field systematically and really that was the inspiration for doing it. And I can guarantee you, when I get there, Im doing it for the right reasons. Im a businessman and an outsider, just like our president...  ... and you can count on me to be a true reinforcement and the guy that is going to retire Joe Donnelly. Thank you.
Thank you, Mike. And we need Mike Braun in the Senate and thats going to happen. Thats going to happen. Hes an incredible guy and ran a really incredible race. Now if Joe Donnelly -- Sleeping Joe and the Democrats get back into power remember what I said: They will raise your taxes -- he wants to raise your taxes -- they will destroy your jobs and they are going to knock the hell out of your borders.
And thats already -- we have the worst immigration laws in the history of mankind. Were slowly getting them changed. We want to make it quick. So give me some reinforcements please. OK?  Last week, as an example, the deputy chair of the Democratic National Committee, Congressman Keith Ellison -- you know him?  ... marched in a parade wearing a t-shirt that read -- hes very proud of it -- I do not believe in borders.  But I have a lot of respect for Keith Ellison.
You know why? Does everyone know why? So when I announced on June 16th, he was being interviewed by George Stephanopoulos on ABC.  And in the interview -- this was a couple of days after I announced. And Keith Ellison said, You know hes going to win, dont you? Right, Mike? Its true. He said, You know hes going to win. And George and somebody else there I wont mention the name. Go ahead. They smiled a little bit, respectfully.
But Keith Ellison, he said, Hes going to win, and essentially he was sort of indicating and theres nothing youre going to be able to do, and thats what we did. So, in one sense I have to respect him. He said, Hes going to win. So you can never dislike a guy like that, can we? But theyve got a big problem. A vote for a Democrat in November is a vote for those borders, and we have to do something stronger. We are going to build the wall. We are already starting the wall.  Were going to build the wall. You know, weve already started.
We got $1.6 billion. Were fixing a lot of it. Were -- in San Diego, so heres what -- heres a case study. San Diego wants the wall.
And I said to my people, Heres the bad news. If we give them the wall, we dont have an advocate. If we dont give them the wall theyre going to be putting a lot of pressure on Governor Moonbeam in California, right? But you know what I did? Something I would normally not do, which means in life Im getting nicer as I get older. I said, Lets build the wall for San Diego. So were building them the wall. I shouldnt have done it.  Actually I, sort of, changed my mind after we started. I called my people, I said, How much would it cost to stop building the wall in San Diego so they go out and advocate for us because theyre desperate for their wall. Because they dont like people running over their front yards and all of the problems, including by the way massive amounts of crime? I said, How much would it cost to stop -- Im in the construction business its what I do best.
They got back to me they said, Sir, it will cost approximately $7 million to stop. Now, thats not big numbers when you hear about the numbers we talk about, $7 million to stop and restart it at a later date. I said, I cant do that to the American people. Keep building the wall. Right?  So were building the wall but were -- were getting it all done. Were going to get rid of catch and release. Were going to get rid of -- were going to get rid of the lottery system. Were going to go eventually -- when I get the votes. I need Republicans. Were going to go eventually to a merit-based system of immigration. Merit.
You come in on merit.  Your senator, Joe Donnelly, voted against enhanced vetting. Think of that. What -- what in the world would anybody be doing voting against enhanced vetting? Why? And he opposed a measure to block illegal immigrants from getting welfare.
And now you have places where they want to give college tuition to illegal immigrants and your own kids cant get it. Your own kids cant get it.  Joe Donnelly voted no on tax cuts, no on better health care and he voted no on canceling job-killing regulations which maybe even more important than those incredible tax cuts. But he voted yes on something that we are systematically taking down.
We got rid of the individual mandate. We have great plans coming out. He voted yes for failed Obamacare. And were doing everything to keep those premiums down but its a failed experiment, Obamacare.
But wait until you see the plans we have coming out literally over the next four weeks. We have great health care plans coming out. But we got rid of the individual mandate.  Joe Donnelly will do whatever Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi tell him what to do. They dont ask -- they dont ask him.
They tell him. They dont say, Will you? They say, Joe, this is the way youre going to vote. Mike Braun will be a great, great representative of the people of Indiana. Mike Braun is a winner. Great businessman, by the way.
Very successful businessman. Mike Braun will fight for the values that bind us all together as Americans. We support law and order and we support the heroes in law enforcement. Theyre great.
Theyre great. And they will tell you surplus military equipment, right? We have it by the hundreds of millions of dollars sitting in warehouses getting old. Some of the best stuff anywhere in the world and past administrations said, No, we cant give that to law enforcement. Someday somebodys going to explain why, but I sort of get it. But its not a good reason.
Its about a 1 percent reason. We have a 99 percent. That equipment is being transferred all over the United States to our police and our law enforcement professionals.  And we already have it. The other side said, But its too good.
Its too good. Its already paid for. We defend the 2nd Amendment. And dont kid yourself, it is under siege.  We defend the right to self-defense. Never believe that your 2nd Amendment is not under siege.
We believe that a strong nation must have strong borders. We have pride in our history and respect for our great American flag.
And we put our large, beautiful hands on our hearts for the Pledge of Allegiance, right?  And we proudly stand -- all the time we stand because we love that sound. We stand for our national anthem at all times.  But if were going to defend our values, we need people in Washington who share our values. Democrats like Sleeping Joe say one thing when theyre in Elkhart and then they go to Washington and vote for the radical, liberal agenda.
It never, ever fails.  You know, theres about 12 of them. You think you have their vote and they talk a good game but they always raise their hand for the radical left of Nancy Pelosi. Always.
The Center for Effective Lawmaking named Joe Donnelly the least effective Democrat lawmaker in the United States Senate. I dont know, Mike, but I think that will be a very good phrase to run by. Hes never sponsored a bill that has become a law. This November, Indiana will face an important choice: You can send a really incredible swamp person back to the Senate like Joe Donnelly or you can send us Republicans like Mike Braun to drain the swamp.

Under my administration, were fighting against the lobbyists, the special interests and the corrupt Washington politics. After years of rebuilding foreign countries, of which a lot of people partake in the cost of rebuilding those foreign countries, we are finally rebuilding our country.  We fight to build their borders, but we dont fight and spend no money to build our borders. Figure that one out.
