Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump At Swearing In of Alex Azar as Secretary of HHS|January 29, 2018
Its a very special day for me, because weve been looking for this day for a long time. Im thrilled to be here to administer the Oath of Office to Americas new Secretary of Health and Human Services, Mr. Alex Azar. Come here, Alex. Hes going to get those prescription drug prices way down as a little bit of an extra, right? Its going to come rocketing down.
Alex is joined today by his father, Alex. Thank you, congratulations. Of course, Ill only say congratulations if he does a great job, right?  Which I know he will. Which I know he will.
We have no doubt, youre right. I dont either. His wife Jennifer, his daughter Claire, his son Alex, his sister Stacy and her family, and his sister-in-law Beth and her husband, and numerous friends -- thank you all for being here. We appreciate it and Alex appreciates it.
Upon taking his Oath of Office, Alex will take the helm of a department he has already served with tremendous distinction, first as General Counsel and later as Deputy Secretary. In both those roles, Alex was outstanding and an incredible public servant. People talk about him to this day. He was instrumental in improving the departments operations and advancing its emergency response capabilities.
Alex knows inside and out the impact of government policy on patients, healthcare, and prices. As the former president of Lilly USA -- big company, great company, and he did an incredible job -- Alex brings invaluable private sector experience to complement his years of public service.
The Department of Health and Human Services has already achieved a great deal rolling back regulations that drive up healthcare costs, but we have a long way to go. A lot of people are very happy with the amount weve done already, but Alex is going to bring that to a big, brand-new level.
As our new Secretary, Alex will continue to implement the administrative and regulatory changes needed to ensure that our citizens get the affordable, high-quality care they deserve. He will help lead our efforts to confront the national emergency of addiction and death due to opioids. And I think were going to be very tough on the drug companies in that regard and very tough on doctors in that regard, because whats going on is pretty incredible.
And finally, put an end to this plague on the lives on families and communities. People go in for a minor operation into a hospital; they come out, theyre addicted to opioids. Theyre addicted to drugs after a short period of time.
We have to get the prices of prescription drugs way down and unravel the tangled web of special interests that are driving prices up for medicine and for really hurting patients. And were going to get that done. Thats going to be so important.
You look at other countries -- they pay a fraction for the exact same drug. The exact same pill, in an identical box from the same factory, costs us much more -- many times more than it does in other countries. And nobody knows that process better than Alex. And were going to get that done because its very unfair to our country. Neighboring countries pay a tiny fraction of what we pay for the same exact pill made in the same location.
And, Alex, I know there is no one more capable, qualified, and committed than you to overcoming these incredible challenges. So important. And I will say this: Prescription drug prices is going to be one of the big things. And whenever I speak to Alex, I speak to him about that, I think, prior to anything else.
And I know you can do it. You know the system and you can do it, because its wrong. So now Ill ask Vice President Pence to formally administer the oath. And again, I just want to congratulate Alex and his family, and God bless you all. Hes got a very important job to do, so thank you. Thank you for giving him to us. And well give him the chance, but you gave him to us, and we appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you, everybody.
Well, I hope its going to be good. We worked on it hard; covered a lot of territory, including our great success with the markets and with the tax cut. Its a big speech -- an important speech.
We cover immigration. For many years -- for many, many years theyve been talking immigration and never got anything done. Were going to get something done, we hope. Its got to be bipartisan, because the Republicans really dont have the votes to get it done in any other way. So it has to be bipartisan. But hopefully the Democrats will join us, or enough of them will join us, so we can really do something great for DACA and for immigration, generally.
But its going to be, I think, a very important speech on trade. The world has taken advantage of us on trade for many years. And as you probably noticed, were stopping that. Were stopping it cold. And we have to have reciprocal trade. Its not a one-way deal anymore.
So we have a lot of things to discuss, and well be discussing them. And I hope you enjoy it. And thank you all very much. See you tomorrow night.
