Donald Trump|Interview: Bill OReilly of Fox News Interviews Donald Trump|February 5, 2017
Lets talk about Iran, your assessment, do you think we are on a collision course we being the United States with that country?
The nuclear deal?
Possibly youll tear it up?
Sanctions, thats how youre going to start with them?
But youre going to move in a carrier, right?
So, youre not real bullish on Iran at this point.
Lets talk about Mexico. There was a report that you talk to President Nieto, and you told him that this was the report. I want to know if its true or not. That if his arm he couldnt handle the drug cartels, that U.S. army soldiers would. Did you say that?
So, President Nieto of Mexico was open to the possibility of U.S. forces, all right? Helping him combat the drug cartels.
At this point, do you consider Mexico a corrupt country? Because this stuff has been going on for decades. His Mexico corrupt.
Have you figured out what kind of a tariff youre going to levy on Mexico to pay for the wall?
All right. So --
You talked to Putin last week. You had a busy week last week.
But within 24 hours of you on the phone with the Russian leader, the pro-Russian forces step up the violence in Ukraine.
Did you take that as an insult?
Do you respect Putin?
Do you? Why?
He is a killer though. Put is a killer.
I dont know of any government leaders that are killers in America.
Yes. Mistakes are different then --
All right. You mentioned ISIS. Can we expect, we the American people, more U.S. military action against ISIS?
You know, tell me specifically.
If you took the oil, the Iraqi oil, you would have to put in U.S. troops to do that, and then that would have started another round of it.
Okay. Lets turn to domestic policy. When can Americans expect the tax cuts? This year?
Yes.
But let me get you on the record here. 2017, can Americans expect a tax cut?
Okay. Can Americans in 2017 expect a new health care plan ruled out by the Trump administration? This year.
Its done.
But when are you going to have something ready?
Now, this is a fascinating story. I just spent the week in California, as you know. They are now voting on whether they should become a sanctuary state. So, the state of California, led by Governor Jerry Brown is defying you, absolutely defying the President of the United States. So, California and the USA are on a collision course. How do you see it?
You mentioned Kates Law. Why do you think the Democratic Party opposes Kates Law? It seems so logical.
But you didnt answer my question. Why do the Democrats oppose, oppose, protecting Americans from violent foreign criminals? Why?
You know what is fascinating, to watch you at the inauguration with Barack Obama. You guys seem to get along. All right? Would that be accurate?
How do you know he likes you?
What did you talk about?
China?
No?
But you cant tell us?
It was fascinating. But heres what was more fascinating. Right after you guys embraced, shook hands, all of that, you gave a speech. But your speech excoriated him. You basically took his administration apart, and he is sitting five feet away from you. In your mind, did you say, how is he reacting to this speech?
Yes. Absolutely.
I dont know if he was happy with that.
What is the most surprising thing for you about this job you have? You come from the private sector, no political office, now, you are the President of United States. What surprised you?
How many hours a day youre working?
What time do you get up?
All right. And you are working after you have breakfast?
I know.
Sure.
Why are they doing that?
Why? I dont understand.
Do you think they dont like you?
I know you for a long time and I know that, you know, when people attack you personally, that bothers you. So, they are saying that you are anti-Muslim. They are saying you are anti-Black. They are saying you are anti-poor. Do you respond, because you do come back?
I mean, but does it hurt your feelings that they are making you into a hater?
Is there any validity to the criticism of you that you say things you cant back up factually? And as the President -- you can do that as a candidate or businessman. But if you say for example that there are three million illegal aliens who voted and then, you dont have the data to back it up, some people is going to say, that is irresponsible for a president to say that. Is there any validity?
I know but you have to have the data to back that up.
So, you think youre going to be proven correct in that statement?
Yes. But the data has to show that three million illegals voted.
Well, that is good.
Lets get to the bottom of it. Do you ever think you were going to convince the media, the American media, to give -- and I know that you dont feel you are getting a fair shot, okay?
