Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Houston, TX|June 17, 2016
We live all over the place. We live all over the place. Wow, what a group. Oh, thank you. Thank you. I love you. We love taxes. I love you. I love you, Texas. Man, thank you. Wow. Thank you, everybody. Somebody asked me how do you think youre going to do in Texas? I think were going to do very well in Texas, right?
Were going to do very well. So I have to say this and you know, you have to see whats going on outside. There are lines that are two, two miles long. I dont know and Im not just saying this, even the press for the first time, and theyve seen 35,000 crowds with me but I think theyre even impressed. And to be honest with you, I -- I mean, were just coming in and youre talking about miles and miles and people.
And I wish the fire department and theyre great, they were wonderful, but they broke the all-time record for this building by far. And I see like, you could squeeze a couple of people from outside, but I guess you know, thats the Fire Marshals, we have to go by our Fire Marshals. Would anybody like to leave so that some more people could come in? I dont think so. I dont think -- Well, I want to thank you.
This is a great honor. You think this is easy, right? You think -- so I get up this morning, Im like one of the early birds, like a lot of you people. Everybodys an early bird in this group I think. But I got up and I was in Dallas and last night we made a speech in Dallas, and we had an amazing crowd there too, Gilleys. We had a packed house and we had thousands of people outside that they actually thought were protesters.
They werent. They were people that couldnt get into the venue, thousands. And then and then we went to San Antonio and we raised -- oh, we have some San Antonio -- and we raised a lot of money over the last two days for the party. The party is doing very well. The party is -- the party is actually liking me. You know, Im an outsider.
Im an outsider. And historically, they dont love the outsiders. But I think theyre starting to like me and maybe therell be a few -- you know you dont hear about the tremendous numbers of people. And Im even talking about the politicians that are totally supportive. If one person raises a little question, its like oh, did you hear?
Let me tell you, folks, we have tremendous support. Tremendous. But the biggest support of all by far, right here. Im the messenger right here. Right here. We have -- we have support like perhaps nobodys ever had when theyve run for office, certainly, at this stage, I dont think anybodys ever seen anything like this.
Some of the pundits, actually some of the pundits that hate me, they hate me with a passion, like, which is great. I mean, I love that. Oh, I love that. Look at that Mexicans for Trump. Mexicans for Trump. I love it. I love it. I love that. Thank you. Thank you. Thats cool, man. And you know why its Mexicans for Trump?
Because Im going to bring jobs back into our country, folks. Im going to bring jobs back into our country. And Hillary doesnt have a clue. She doesnt know about jobs. Remember this. Remember this. Her husband signed NAFTA.  True. Maybe the worst economic development transaction ever signed in the history of our country.
It cleaned out our manufacturing. I mean, I just won so many states and I got to see these states. I went all over the different states in Pennsylvania, New York, all over the place and I got to see what NAFTA, the havoc that it wreaked. And its taken our jobs just like were a bunch of babies like were a bunch of babies, and move them to other places.
Honestly, move them all over Mexico. We have -- we have states where they say you know I have statisticians, right? The worlds most boring job but yeah, we got to do it. Somebodys got to do it. And I get numbers where certain states lost 50% and 60% of their manufacturing jobs. And youd go upstate, like upstate New York, and you see empty factories, empty buildings, buildings that you could buy for nothing.
Buildings that have been abandoned where they left because Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, and it didnt affect him so much because he was gone. But boy, did it affect the rest of these Presidents. Let me tell you and were going to bring our jobs back. Were not going to be the stupid people anymore, folks. Were not going to be the stupid people.
So what we have and well build the wall, he says build the wall. Were going to build a wall. We have to. We have to.  Look, we have no choice. We have no choice. So I just got -- three weeks ago, I got the endorsement of 16,500 Border Patrol agents, right? Its the first time -- the first time theyve ever endorsed a Presidential candidate, OK? And theyre great people.
And by the way, theyre job is much easier now. Stand back. Dont talk. Dont do this. Stand back. Much easier job. They want to do their job. They see whats happening to our country. They love our country. They want to do the job. Theyre not allowed to do their job. So heres whats going to happen. And I asked them.
Such incredible people. I asked them I said just you know I got to be 100% sure, do we need the wall?  You said yes but they said yes also. I dont know what I would have done supposing they said no, Id say really? What am I going to do here? But I said do we need -- and they said, Mr. Trump, it is such an unbelievably important weapon for drugs pouring through.
I mean, we have drugs pouring into our country. When I won New Hampshire. I love New Hampshire, my first victory. You know we won 37, I think, Im going to say, I have to say, I think because if its like 36 or 35 even if its 38 or 39, theyll correct me. But we won New Hampshire. And when I say we, we really won it. We won it. This is all about we. This is about we, we. Ill tell you, folks.
I didnt have to do this. I didnt have to do this. This is -- I love it. I love it. I love it. But I didnt have to do -- this is like work, folks. This is like hey, you know what? Yesterday was the one-year anniversary when I announced were going to run. Yesterday. All right, great. The one year that was the one year from yesterday.
Somebody said you know its June 16th. I said June 16th thats when I decided to do this and its been a great experience. Thank you, darling. Thank you. I love you. I love you. I love everybody in this room. I love everyone in this room. And you know the amazing thing -- and we all love each other. It is. Ill tell you why.
You know, you see oh, wow, somebody was protesting. The safest place to be anywhere is that a Trump rally. Believe me. The safest place. The safest place. And no matter what you say, I mean, you just take a look. Now, if theres one protester that raises the hand, although I love it, you know the only way I get the show -- because nobody has crowds like we have.
And theyll admit that not Bernie and Bernie did pretty well with the crowd. He was second, by the way, a deep, deep second. He was way back.  No, dont forget. We agree with Bernie on one thing, trade. He knows how bad our trade deals are. He gets it. He gets it and thats good. Now, were trying to get Bernies people because a lot of those Bernie people hate Hillary Clinton, crooked Hillary as we call it. And of course, Bernie hates Hillary Clinton.
We know that thats for sure. One thing you got to say, he doesnt give up. Shes going -- is he still here? Is he still here? Who would have thought that I was going to win, what, eight weeks ago? It was supposed to be the opposite way, and here we have it from eight weeks ago, and shes still out there trying to say, can we get rid of Bernie?
Is there any way? And just like she cant close that deal, folks. She wont be able to make trade deals. She wont be able to take care of our military. Everybodys going to be ripping us off as a country, OK? The same exact way and the same way that youre looking at it. So look, heres what we have to do. When I came down.
Thank you. When I came down and I said, I actually said, Oh, I thought it was a protester. I said, friend or foe? And it was a friend and I was disappointed because if its a friend, the cameras will never go there. So thats no good. Thank you. Thats called, thats called an enthusiastic friend. But just so you understand, weve had things happen to our country.
I mean World Trade Center, if you look at what happened in California recently, San Bernardino, you look at that. Its a radicalization like nobodys ever seen before. Its more -- its a radicalization. Its a hatred. Its a hatred. Its a deep-seated hatred. And President Obama is trying to make terrorism into guns and its not guns, folks.
Has -- it is not guns.  It is not guns. This is terrorism. And by the way, the NRA came out, National Rifle Asso -- Ill tell you what. They came out very strongly probably the earliest theyve ever done it. So the National Rifle Association endorsed Trump and those people are fantastic people.
You know they take a lot of heat. They love this country. They love what it represents. Theyre protecting your Second Amendment and nobody will protect your Second Amendment like Donald John Trump. Nobody. Nobody. Nobody. And remember this, Hillary Clinton wants to abolish the Second Amendment, essentially.
She wants to abolish the Second Amendment. She wants to take your guns away and you see things like we saw over the weekend. Remember this, if you had some of those incredible young people that were so brutally killed over the weekend or people in Paris where you have the toughest gun laws in the world, in Paris and France.
In Paris, you have the toughest gun laws in the world, 130 killed. Wounded still in the hospital, devastated, theyll never be the same. Just horribly wounded. Same thing in San Bernardino. Same thing in our military base where we had five unbelievable soldiers, one of them was a world-class marksman. It was a gun-free zone.
You know a gun-free zone oftentimes means carnage because lets call them the enemy, which is what they are, and we should declare war on ISIS. We should declare war on ISIS. We should declare war on ISIS. War. Its war. Its war. And theyre poisoning our -- And they are poisoning our youth through the Internet.
Theyre getting people to go over there. The press calls these people masterminds at the top level. Theyre not masterminds, folks. Theyre thugs. Theyre sick people. And weve got to put an end to it. And if we dont were not going to have a country left anymore. Were not going to have a country. So, so were going to get very tough.
Our military is depleted, badly depleted. You see that. Nobody better than our military people. Nobody better than our vets. Look at the way our vets are being taken cared of. Were going to take care of our vets, folks. Whos a vet? Were going to take care of our vets. They wait on line, these are great people, our greatest people.
They wait on line four, five, six, and seven days, and they die. They die waiting to see a doctor for a routine ailment, a routine ailment, and theyre waiting five, six, seven days, and you see whats happening. You see whats happening. Its like Hillary. Its a corrupt enterprise, OK? Its a corrupt enterprise.
And were going to straighten that out. Were going to make sure they get very quick and very good care. And if they cant see a doctor, were going to have them go across the street to a hospital, to a private doctor, to a public hospital, who cares? And were going to pay the bill. Were going to pay that bill.
And you know what? Thats less expensive, by the way, thats less expensive than what were doing right now. And you look at the number of deaths. So were going to take care very much so were going to take care of our veterans and thats -- and Im the one for the first time in decades, our veterans are going to be treated like they should be treated.
Theyre going to be treated great. Wow. My friends, my friends. So I have in the front row and I just see some of the greatest people, some of the greatest people. These are people who lost loved ones. These are my friends. These are my friends. And they called me right after my announcement and they said, Thank you, Mr. Trump.
Nobody else has thought of them. These are people that lost loved ones to people that should not have been in the country. And I want to just thank you all. Sweetheart, thank you. Thank you, darling. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Look at this sign. Hold that up. Look at that sign. Wow. Whoa. Gays for Trump.
Gays for Trump. Well, look, Hillary Clinton, crooked Hillary takes tens of millions of dollars into her Foundation, Foundation. Takes tens of millions of dollars from countries that kill gays and that enslave women. And I will tell you, I am far better for women, I am far better for gays, and now she wants people from these countries to come into the United States and I was saying at a 500% greater clip than Obama and the press said I was wrong.
Guess what? It was 550%. It was more, 550% more than Obama coming in. And many of these countries, they want to kill gays and they enslave women. And Hillary Clinton wants them pouring in. You tell me, whos better for gays? Who is better? Tell me. Who is better for women? Who is better for women?  And what happened to the LGBT community over the weekend?
To what happened there and remember this, remember this. Before we get off to the next subject which is going to be a very interesting subject for you, folks. But dont we feel bad for that 10, 15, 20. How many people are outside press, how many? Is it 10,000 or 20,000? Because Ill tell you what, I think is closer to 20,000, anyway, anyway, anyway, if we had -- If we had people where the bullets were going in the opposite direction, right smack between the eyes of this maniac, if some of those wonderful people had guns strapped right here, right to their waist or right to their ankle, and this son of a bitch comes out and starts shooting, and one of the people in that room happened to have it and goes boom, boom.
You know what? That would have been a beautiful, beautiful sight, folks. That would have been a beautiful, beautiful sight. So dont let them take your guns away. And believe me, you put me in there, were going to save that Second Amendment, were going to save you guns. Theyre not going to take away your bullets.
Theyre not going to shorten up your magazines. Theyre not going to do anything. Were going to preserve it. And were going to cherish it. And thats what we have to do. Now, remember this. So we have a -- I love you. Look at this guy, he keeps shouting. He loves -- you love me, right? Hey, you know what?
Hes a guy but I love him, OK? Hes a guy but I love him. Thats cool, man. All right. So look, we have a lot of things happening. One of the things is by circumstance, we lost a great justice, Scalia. And on the Supreme Court, were going to have probably three picks. But it could be four, it could even be five.
It could be a record in the history of the Supreme Court for a four-year term. And if Hillary gets in there and puts these horrendous picks in the Supreme Court, folks, we are like Venezuela. You see whats happening to Venezuela, right? You see whats happening. We will be a large scale version of Venezuela.
And its not going to be pretty. One of the reasons, I hope you are with me, and I know every -- Is there anybody in this room thats not going to vote for Trump? Just out of curiosity. Nobody. Wow. USA. USA.  Amazing. Amazing. OK, so ready? So one of the most -- look defense is always the most important, right?
You know defense is always but I will pick great, smart, brilliant, conservative intellects, great judges, and what Ive done is we went to the Federalist Society where they really -- and also with the Auspices of Heritage, which is a great group. And we picked 11 judges, were going to probably put three or four more on there.
But we picked 11 great, great judges. And I said from this group or very similar to this group, we are going to pick judges for the United States Supreme Court, and youre going to be proud of those judges, and theyre going to be terrific. Hopefully, very much in the mold of Judge Scalia. Thats what we want to do, OK? So, so I just think its so important.
The defense of our country. We have to build up our military. We have to take care of our vets. We have to do all these things but we have to pick great justices for the Supreme Court. And if we dont, were not going to have a country anymore. Were not going to have a country. So its so important. And a lot of people forget.
They say, oh well, this and that, so important. One of the most important thing. OK, so ready? We need borders, right? We need borders. We need borders. And he was saying just a little while ago, the wall, and were going to have the wall, and were going to have a wall, its going to be such a beautiful wall.
Its gonna be so big. Its going to be so powerful. Its going to be as beautiful as a wall can be. Ive got to make it beautiful because maybe someday theyll name the wall, the Trump Wall. Who the hell knows? Who the hell knows? But folks we have to have it. And the Border Patrol said, Mr. Trump, you need it. Look heres the story.
We need borders. We dont have borders right now. We need borders. We either have a country or we dont. We dont have borders, we dont have a country, all right? And people are pouring in and we need this. But we also need it for drugs. When I was up in New Hampshire, I was going to say, I spent a great deal of time there, and I got to know the people.
And its a beautiful state. Incredible. The beautiful lakes and rivers and roadways and the trees and everything. And Id sit with a group and Id say, whats the big problem in New Hampshire? They said heroin. I said heroin? It doesnt work. I mean, it doesnt fit with everything, the beauty. And it turned out to be a massive, massive, massive problem for New Hampshire.
And then, I went to South Carolina, I went to Massachusetts, I went all over the place, no matter where I went, heroin, and drugs that pour across the Southern Border. And I said to the people of New Hampshire, my first victory, I love them. I love them. I said to the people of New Hampshire, look, if I get elected were going to solve your problem.
Were going to try and get your youth, and its not only youth, its beyond youth. But were going to try and get people help them. Were going to help them. Weve got to make them better. We got to get them off it. Its not easy. Were going to work like hell to get them off this horrible stuff thats flowing in and its cheaper than candy.
Its cheaper than candy because theres so much of it. It pours in because our leadership, our President doesnt have a damn clue what the hell hes doing and our youth are being poisoned. Theyre being poisoned. And the wall will be done and you know interestingly, when I was talking to certain politicians, they said you dont really build a wall.
I mean, you cant really build a wall. Well, we have 2,000 miles, we actually need 1,000 even less than that because we have a lot of natural barriers, right? Big, strong, wonderful, natural barriers. So we need 1,000 miles. The Great Wall of China is 13,000 miles long and it was built 2,000 years ago, folks, 2,000 years ago and they didnt have Caterpillar tractors just so you understand.
You know to the best of my knowledge they didnt have -- and we will not use Komatsu. We will use Caterpillar, OK? We will use Caterpillar. Were not using Komatsu. You know I used to tell the story and I could see what was happening. I dont know if you saw. Two days ago it was announced that our trade deficit, our trade deficit is the largest its been in seven years, OK? Now think of that.
How sad. And here I am for years saying, our trade, our trade, our trade, and the arrogance. They dont listen. They dont listen to me. They have to listen to me, right? Because Im representing a lot of people, folks. So we have the largest trade deficit weve had in many, many years. And thats why I mentioned the name Komatsu, right?
And a friend of mine -- this is two years ago now. I used to tell this story. I havent told it but hes an excavator, a great excavator, big. And I see him and hes very sad, and I say why are you very sad? Hes a rough guy, doesnt get too sad, but he gets sad. Hes rough. Most excavators are pretty rough, right?
You know, these are not -- these are not babies. But lets say this, hes as sad as an excavator can be, right? But he said to me Donald, I just ordered Komatsus. I said really, why? He said because Japan has devalued their currency to such an extent -- and he always bought Caterpillar tractors, his whole life, he bought Caterpillar, and they couldnt compete, only for one reason because Japan has brilliantly devalued, devalued, devalued, and he went on made a very, very large order of Komatsu.
I say are they as good? He said no but theyre very good. Theyre very good high-quality equipment but not as good. But good enough and quite good. And I said so what do you think? He said our countrys in trouble. And I started telling this story two years ago and if you think about it, I really predicted exactly what was going to happen because look at whats going on. Were losing our jobs like crazy.
The reason I won Indiana was largely, well, it was because of Bobby Knight. I mean, Bobby Knight, you know, Bobby Knight and some other great folks. I want to tell you. And I think we wouldve won very big anyway, but boy did we win in a big landslide. But you know what? That was right in the time when everybody was talking about Carrier air conditioner moving to Mexico firing 1,400 people.
And those people were following me around that week in Indiana. They came from Indianapolis and Carrier had a big plant, and they said, were closing it folks, and remember it was on all over television. Were closing it. Were moving to Mexico. Now, I dont blame Mexico. I dont blame Mexico and I dont blame China for ripping us off, and they are ripping us, big league, right?
Biggest trade deficits in the history of the world with China. We have rebuilt China. I dont hold it against them at all. Not all. I dont hold it against China. I dont hold it against Japan. I dont hold it against Mexico or Vietnam or India or any other country thats killing us on trade, thats taking our jobs.
I dont hold it against them. I hold it against our leaders for being grossly incompetent. Theyre incompetent and when they want to take our companies out of our country, theres going to be a price to be paid. Theres going to be consequences. No more folks, no more, no more, no more empty factories that sit there and rot like all over Pennsylvania, all over New York state, all over Maryland.
Im looking at these places, you wouldnt believe what you see, and you could see 20, 25 years ago thriving, thriving enterprises, and now theyre rotted from the water and from the wind. So were going to do things, folks, and were going to be the smart people again. You know a lot of the Republicans have said to me, and they said you know, you are not conservative.
And the reason -- I imitate somebody, he said you are not a conservative because you dont believe in free trade. OK, who cares? Let me tell you. Folks, folks, let me tell you. Number one, Im Republican. Number two, I happen to be -- I happen to be conservative, but, but more importantly, I was asked by one of the networks recently, so what is your status?
You know to be a conservative youre supposed to believe in free trade, goes across the border. But we dont have free trade. People think we do because theyre stupid people. We dont have free trade. With China, with China, they dump their product all over the place, theyre dumping steels, and ruining our steel mills.
Theyre ruining our steel mills. Obamas closing up our coal miners in our mines. So you got -- you got miners all over the place, and you know what? I went into West Virginia, we won West Virginia in a landslide because the miners know that Im going to put the miners back to work. Were going to put the steelworkers back to work.
Were going to put them back to work. And were going to put them back fast. But I dont blame these countries. What I do is I blame our inadequate leadership and its almost hard to believe that this can be happening when you look at whats going on with our country. Now, heres what were going to do. Lets take the clip -- and I could talk about Ford, I can talk about Carrier, I can talk about hundreds of different companies that are no longer here.
Theyre no longer here. And heres the story, folks. I believe in free trade, OK? Thats official. But heres the problem with free trade. We need smart leaders to make free trade work. And we have leaders that are not smart. In fact, theyre rather stupid, I must say. Theyre rather stupid. So I was asked on a program the other day, recently, they said do you believe in free trade?
I said yeah, I do. Do you believe in fair trade? Yeah, I do. I believe in trade. Well, what kind of trade do you like the best? I said heres my trade. I want to make great deals. Thats what it is, for the people, for this country. I dont care if its free trade, I dont care if its fair. It doesnt make any difference.
I want my trade deal. I want to make good deals for you. And I have the greatest negotiators in the world. We have Carl Icahn. Ive gotten endorsed by the big business leaders. They love Trump. What can I tell you? But I have such great endorsements. I have -- we have the greatest negotiators in the world in our country and we dont use them to make these deals that are bigger than any companys deals.
These are the biggest deals, deals with China, deals with Japan and Mexico. These are the biggest deals in the world, folks and we use political lightweights, political hacks that dont know what theyre doing. And China looks at us and they cant believe how stupid we are. They cant believe they get away with it for years.
Its amazing that the country, not so well, but that the country functions. Its amazing. So were going to change all of that and when we came down, remember, when I started this journey. When I started this journey, it was about illegal immigration and these are my friends right here and theyve lost big league, big league, the biggest, theyve lost the biggest.
All of my friends. Unbelievable people. Theyve lost the biggest. But when I came down it was about illegal immigration. And it was about trade. And it was about a strong military. But basically, it was about illegal immigration and trade and bringing our jobs back. Then we had Paris happen and we had other things happen whether its San Bernardino or so many others.
And I started saying, well, we got to toughen up this country. We have to be very, very smart and very strong and very vigilant, and we have to get people when they see there are bombs all over the floor of an apartment. They have to report these people to the authorities and they have to report them fast.
They have to report them fast. No more games. You know, the leader of the Paris attack they couldnt find him. Do you remember? And it was almost a year. Do you know where he lived? Right next to where he was living for years. Everybody knew he was there. Nobody reported him. They found him through luck.
Nobody reported him. San Bernardino, they see all these bombs all over the floor. They say, oh well, you know not to normal that bombs all over your apartment floor, right? People saw it. This maniac over the weekend, look at his record, people saw what he was doing. First of all his wife knew. I think his father knew.
I think a lot of people knew. And they didnt report him and we have now 50 young people, we have 50 people dead. We have a tremendous number of people badly, horribly, gravely injured. They didnt report them. They knew he was going to go. They knew he was going to explode. Nobody reported him. Nobody. They have to report and Ive been saying it for two weeks, big league.
And now all of a sudden people are saying report, theyre saying report. OK, so heres one other thing, folks. We have a country thats bust, right? We have a country thats bust. We protect Japan. We protect Germany. We protect Saudi Arabia. We protect South Korea. We protect all these countries and they dont pay us what it costs.
They dont pay us. Were losing a fortune. We have to go to those countries which are wonderful countries. We have to say we need help. Now, Hillary said how dare Donald Trump say that. He wants to abandon Japan. I dont want to abandon Japan. Now, heres the problem with what she said. By her saying that you can never make a good deal because shes saying under no circumstances, folks, we have to be prepared to walk.
I dont want to walk. Hopefully, were not going to walk. But if you dont say youre going to walk or if youre not prepared to walk, youre never going to get them to pay. We are losing billions and billions and billions of dollars protecting very strong financial behemoths. South Korea, how about Saudi Arabia?
Saudi Arabia was making $1 billion a day when the oil was high. Now, theyre still making a fortune. If we werent there, Saudi Arabia wouldnt be there for two weeks, OK? We protect Saudi Arabia. We pay rent, we pay rent on facilities that we have. We pay rent and were protected.  With Japan, with our Japan treaty, if the United States gets attacked they can watch the attack on Sony television and never do a thing.
If they get attacked, we have to use the full force of our armed forces to protect them, OK? Who makes these deals? Who makes these deals? Who makes these deals? So what Im saying is this. I have to go. My favorite. So I get asked by a very good commentator, what do you think of NATO? Now in all fairness, Ive been doing deals all my life, I do you know, I built this great company and all that stuff and I do deals.
Nobody talks about NATO. I mean in all fairness, Id like to say I have great experience with NATO. But I do have a lot of common sense and I do have a lot of business instinct like some of my friends that are here. So the question is what do you think of NATO? So I say to myself, the first thing is nobodys ever asked me this before.
Second thing is well, I said this, I said number one, I believe its obsolete. You know, set up many, many years ago about the Soviet Union. Soviet Union doesnt exist now its Russia, but Russias still a big threat. Its OK for Russia. The problem is, the problem is that our new threat is terrorism, and NATO wasnt really set up for terrorism.
They dont even have the right countries, all right? So I said its obsolete because it doesnt take care and take into account terrorism. Number two, all of these countries, well, a lot of them dont pay. You know in the real estate business -- I have some friends that are in real estate here. They call it, theyre delinquent, right?
Theyre delinquent. They didnt pay their rent. These people didnt pay. Now, were protecting them, probably end up in third world war by protecting these countries. They dont even pay or they pay us a fraction or they pay us much less than theyve agreed to pay us because nobody asked them for money. In the meantime, we have the highest taxes in the world, we have budget deficits that are through the roof, and by the way, speaking of that Im lowering your taxes, lower than any other candidate by far, by far, and were getting rid of these horrible, horrible regulations that are killing people, and killing small businesses.
Were getting rid of so many of them, so many of them. So I said, so I said its obsolete they dont take care of terrorism and theyre not paying up. They got to pay up and it turned out I was right on both counts but Ill never forget. The first three or four days, Donald Trump didnt know anything about NATO.
I said why? three or four days later, all of a sudden people that studied it very closely that never studied anything, like they have blinders on, right? They cant see the forest for the trees, right? You know the expression. They cant see the forest for the trees. All of a sudden, three or four days later, people are saying hes brilliant.
Hes right. Hes -- like Putin. Putin called me brilliant. I like it. They want me to disavow. Putin said Donald Trump is brilliant. Essentially, hell be the next leader but Donald Trump is brilliant. And the people I was debating against they said, we would like you to disavow that statement. And I said do you think Im going to disavow that statement?
Are you crazy? So with NATO. So I went three days -- and the press was just absolutely brutal, like, I didnt know what the hell Im talking about, give me a break. Then three or four days later, the experts are starting to say, you know huh, Trump is sort of right. Its obsolete. These are people that study it eight hours a day.
They study it and they say you know, Trump can be right and hes right also, theyre not paying up. Theyre not paying up. They owe us a lot of money, many of these countries. OK. Now, heres what happens. About seven days ago, front page of The Wall Street Journal. Big, big story, NATO to set up major terrorism unit General so and so to be the head of it. I said thats what I said.
Now, they dont give me credit for that. You know they had a little sentence, like, a little one-third sentence, Donald Trump wasnt happy about it. Oh, great. Great. Folks, our country has such incredible potential. We have such incredible potential. There are so many pockets of fat. There are so many pockets of stupidity.
We can bring our country back bigger and better and stronger than ever before. Im telling you. Just on the military and I said this, I said again, you have to always be prepared to walk. But just in the military, I said look, we want to help Japan. We want to be a great ally to Japan. Well always be friends with Japan.
But you know they got to help us. They sent -- Obama sent a General out and he said doesnt Donald Trump -- No, this is true. I promise. Doesnt Donald Trump know that Japan covers 50% of the cost of the military? I said why dont they cover 100% of the cost of the -- Why? Why? Why? Now you know, if he said 50%, the number is probably 25% or 20%, OK? Folks, were like the country, and so true, thats being led by the dumb people.
Its not going to happen anymore, folks. Its America first. Its America first. Its America first. And were going to get it going and were going to get it going like it hasnt been going in many, many years. I really mean it. You know my theme, I see all these hats, Make America Great Again, white, red, camel, black, all of these hats.
But were going to -- you know the theme is Make America Great Again. I honestly believe, it will be Make America Great Again, make America safe again, safe. And I really believe, I really, really believe that our country can be greater than ever before. I know the people. These are unbelievable -- you. These are unbelievable people.
And folks, we dont win anymore, right? We dont win anymore. We dont win. We dont win with anything. We dont win on trade. We dont win with the military. Were going to knock the hell out of ISIS, by the way, we have no choice. We have no choice. We have no choice but were going to start winning again.
Were going to win so much you people are going to get sick of it. Youre going to come up and theyre going to call me from Texas, Mr. Trump, sir, you have thousands and thousands of calls from Texas. Theyre all your friends. They heard you speak one night. Mr. Trump, theyre very upset. President Trump, theyre very upset.
Theyre going to walk in and theyre going to say, go ahead. What the hell difference -- theyre going to walk in. Theyre going to say, President Trump, thousands and thousands of calls from Texas. They are so upset with you Mr. President. They cant stand the amount with which youre winning by everything is a win.
Youre winning on trade. Youre winning at the border. Youre winning with your military. Youre winning on healthcare. Were going to repeal that. Its horrible stuff, and replace it. Mr. President, sir. Youre winning with Common Core. Youre going to end it and bring education local. Mr. President, sir.
