Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Fletcher, NC|October 21, 2016
Look at all those Women for Trump signs. I love them. I don't think they're telling the truth, because when I look at all of the women at our rallies, I think we're gonna do very well with women for Trump. Thank you. [Applause]
In 18 days we're going to win the state of North Carolina and we are going to win back the White House. [Applause]
Our opponents have spent more money than ever before in history on this campaign. They've raised it from special interests and yet, we are leading in three recent polls that just came out over the last day. [Applause]
Rasmussen, Los Angeles Times, and Investor's Business Daily, we're leading. And by the way, the last one as they tell me, the most accurate poll of the last cycle. So that's a good sign. That's a good sign. Because I honestly -- I believe we're going to win. This is what's going to happen. [Applause]
We have two great Congressmen in the group, and they told me what's going on in their districts. It's unbelievable. Their areas unbelievable. Jimmy Duncan of Tennessee is here someplace. Where's Jimmy Duncan? Jimmy. Incredible guy. And he said, you won't believe what's happening in Tennessee. And Mark Meadows. Did you ever hear of Mark Meadows? [Applause]
And much more importantly, his wife. The real leader in the family, right? Thank you Mark. Thank you for being here. Thank you both very much.
These are great people, but they're just telling me the level of excitement and the people coming out -- I think we're going to have -- beyond the Brexit -- I think we're going beyond Brexit. You know about Brexit.[Applause]
I think we're gonna have it.
Early voting is underway so make sure you send in your ballot. We cannot take a chance of blowing it. We can not take a chance. We have something, we're so close, it's a movement like they've never seen in this country before, never, ever seen. Don't blow it on November 8th. [Applause]
Together we're going to deliver real change that puts America first. We're going to renegotiate our terrible trade deals, end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, reduce surging crime, cut taxes and regulations -- so important... [Applause]
And Hillary is going to raise your taxes big league, you've seen that. [Booing]
We're going to unleash job-producing American energy, rebuild our military and take care of our veterans who have not been taken care of. [Applause]
And of course, one of the true staples to my campaign, and I say to our campaign, repeal and replace Obamacare. [Applause]
Your jobs will come back under a Trump administration. Your incomes will go up under a Trump administration. Your taxes will go way, way down under a Trump administration. [Applause]
Your companies won't be leaving North Carolina under a Trump administration. There will be consequences for that. We will be strong and a really strong and powerful nation again. Our military is so depleted. We're gonna build it up. America has grown weak, and so weak that the Philippines have broken with decades of pro-American foreign policy, to instead leave for the orbit of China and Russia. You saw that yesterday. The hatred -- I mean, why is Obama campaigning. He ought to be out working. He ought to be out... [Applause]
I mean, I'm gonna send the Congressmen back to Washington with that message. But we'll send the real message on November 8th. Right? We'll send the real message on November 8th. [Applause]
But every time I look at him he's campaigning. You see the Philippines. The heads of the Philippines -- they're so angry. He leaves for China, he's now negotiating with China. We've been in the Philippines practically forever. A very important strategic ally. And what happens? China and Russia are probably gonna take it, and I see him out there campaigning for crooked Hillary. Come on, come on. Give me a break. [Booing]
Strength will also require growth. Right now our economy isn't growing at all. We had only around one percent growth last quarter. GDP a disaster. You know, when China has one percent it's over, they don't have one percent. They have seven percent, that's considered terrible. India has eight percent, that's considered bad for them. They don't like it. We have one percent and everything's supposed to be fine. But we're going down. If Hillary gets in she's gonna raise your taxes and the one percent is going to be negative and that's going to be almost unheard of, but that's gonna happen.
I made a lot of predictions. If that happens, and if she gets in, you're gonna have such negative growth you will have problems like you've never had before, and our companies and our jobs will flee, believe me.
I'm going to get us to 4 percent growth and create 25 million jobs over a 10-year period. [Applause]
Many workers are earning less today than they were 18 years ago. They're working harder and longer and they're making less. Some of them are working two jobs and even three jobs but still taking home less pay than they were taking home 18 and 20 years ago.
But I'm working harder too, folks. I'm working harder, there's no doubt about it. I've got three stops today. We've got three of these today. We've got three. [Applause]
You know, I've got three, on occasion I have four, I think I have one rest day where I have two -- but these are massive rallies and we're gonna do this for another 19 days. Right up until the actual vote of November 8th, and then I don't know what kind of shape I'm in but I'll be happy and at least I will have known, win, lose or draw, and I'm almost sure if the people come out we're gonna win. [Applause]
But I will be, I will be happy with myself because I always say, I don't want to think back, If only I did one more rally I would have won North Carolina by 500 votes instead of losing it by 200 votes." Right? If only I did. So I never
We have to work, you have to get everybody you know out there. Companies like Carrier are firing their workers and moving to Mexico. Ford is moving all of its small car production, announced two weeks ago, to Mexico. That's on top of a $2.5 million plant that they already built.
When I'm president, if companies want to fire their workers and leave for Mexico or other parts of the world, there will be a tax of 35 percent for any product they want to ship in to this country... [Applause]
... and you know what's gonna happen? Because I'm a free trader. A lot of people don't believe that. I'm a free trader. But our politicians have made such horrible trade deals that they're killing our workers, they're killing our companies and our companies are being forced to move. Including the fact that taxes are so high.
There will be consequences. And we're not gonna lose a company in North Carolina, have them go to Mexico or someplace else, make their products, sell it back in here -- which we will have a very strong border -- and there are no consequences.
And I'll tell you what's gonna happen when we do this. For years our government has tried to stop our companies from leaving. Guess what's gonna happen? They're not gonna leave anymore. Because all of a sudden it won't work. If they do at least we're gonna make a lot of money when they ship their products across the border. OK? [Applause]
The politicians -- you've never even heard of this. You've heard it from me over the last six months. For me it was so simple. You want to move, good luck. Enjoy the heat. But let me tell you. When you make your air conditioner, you make your car, you do this, you're gonna leave all those people unemployed -- there are consequences. You're gonna pay a tariff or a tax.
Hillary Clinton has raised countless millions of dollars and they're not leaving -- from big donors who want to ship our jobs to other countries, including millions of dollars from corporations and countries pushing for the next NAFTA. The next horrible trade deal, it's called the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Don't let it happen, that will be the rest of your jobs will be gone. [Booing]
The rest of your jobs. That's how our system is corrupt and broken. We're going to take on big donors. We're going to take on big business and big media. That have enriched themselves at your expense. And I didn't need to do this folks. And I was part of the other side for a long time. I understand the game as well as anybody -- as well as anybody. But I saw the game, and I saw it first hand, and this country has been great to me. I love this country. And I said, our country will not survive if we continue to play that game.
So this is always a tough thing to do, but I'm doing it. And I am so invigorated by the kind of reception. Look at this, to the corners of the room. [Applause]
Make America great again. That's what we're going to do. It's all about making America great again. We're going to do it. And I understand it. I understand it from both sides, believe me. And I think you know that.
Thank you.
The media is so corrupt that Hillary was given the exact questions to a previous debate. You remember this? Right? Just recently. Word for word, given the questions. Here are the questions. Here are the questions.
Nobody gave me the questions. Now I don't know what I do. Would I turn the people in? Or would I take the questions? She was given the question. I think I'd turn them in, I think I'd say, wait a minute, what's going on over here? I want to know was she given the question to my debate. But it doesn't matter because we won. So... [Applause]
Based on everything we won. I hope, that especially the last -- I think the first one, you know, was fine. I thought it was good. I mean, I never did this stuff before in all fairness. But I think we did well, I think it was good. They gave me this great commission on public, on presidential debates. They're wonderful, except they gave me a broken mic. But that's OK. I'm screaming into the mic all night. But I think the first one was fine. And I think we won easily the second one. And the third one was our best. Right? Third one? [Applause]
But she was given the questions to a debate by Donna Brazile, who is now under pressure to resign. [Booing]
She should be, she should resign. But I ask you, why didn't Hillary say I can't do this? I can't do this. I can't take -- I can't take these questions. Nobody from the media is asking that question. Why is it, they're putting a lot of pressure on Donna Brazile, she was on television the other night. It was brutal. They're putting a lot of pressure on her. But tell me, she handed the questions to Hillary. Hillary read the questions, figured out the answers, put whatever she had to do. And then, why didn't she say I'm not allowed to do this?
Years ago, years ago, there was a show called The $64
But Hillary got the questions in advance and the press doesn't even bring it up. Can you imagine if I got the questions in advance and they found out? [Booing]
Can you imagine if I got the questions and they found out? They would re-invent a much more sinister form of the electric chair, is that right? Yes. Yes. But I have to ask the press to find out why aren't they asking Hillary why she didn't turn in the people that gave her the answers. And those questions. [Booing]
But this is even bigger than what we're talking about, because we're playing for the presidency of the United States. Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt politician ever to seek the office of the presidency. [Booing]
Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up. Lock her up.
Let's do this. Let's do this. November 8th, let's win. Let's win. [Applause]
Let's win. We win, we have lots of options. But we got to win. What a waste of time if we don't pull this off. You know these guys have said, It doesn't matter if you win or lose
I say it matters to me whether we win or lose -- [Applause]
'-- so I'll have over $100 million of my own money in this campaign. So if I lose, if I lose, I will consider this -- and the nice part about saying that, and I only tell you that because that means I'm not taking all of this money from all of these people that Hillary Clinton's taking money -- [Applause]
And you know her and her husband made $250 million. I said during the second debate, I said, So why aren't you putting $5 million
They're not putting anything.
And we're fighting this juggernaut because they have billions of dollars they've raised. And we're fighting -- I turned on the other day, I was in Florida, and I was in Pennsylvania -- I turned on the television. It was ad after ad after ad.
Most of those ads were phony ads. Most of the things in those ads were false. They were false. I never said it, they know I didn't say it. They have different things. I won't go into things because my people go crazy. They say don't be particular, just -- I like to deny things. I like to [Inaudible] because -- but they say oh talk about jobs. But these things are so false, all of these things are so false, are such lies. But Hillary -- it's ad after ad after ad, all paid for by Wall Street and special interests, all paid.
And I'm saying to myself, I think they said in Florida the number of ads gonna be 50 to one

Now from Wikileaks we just learned she tried to get $12 million from the King of Morocco, for an appearance. More pay for play. [Booing]