Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Tallahassee, FL|October 25, 2016
This is a lot of people. This is a lot of people. So that gentleman has real bravery, the recipient of the Congressional Medal of Honor. Thats great stuff. Thank you very much. That was great.
Thank you. In 14 days we are going to win the state of Florida and we are going to win back the White House.
Early voting in Florida is underway, so make sure you get out and vote. We have a thing going on that theyve never seen before. Its a movement. Theyve never seen anything like it before. Were going to win and were going to bring back a lot of good things, including common sense to the White House.
Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track, we have no doubt about that. We are going to fix it. We are going to get our country right back on the right track.
Together are going to deliver real change that puts America first -- America first. We havent heard that term in a long-term, right? We dont put America first anymore. We are going to start, starting next year. As soon as we take office, its America first again.
That begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.
As you know, its just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double digit spike in Obamacare premiums, including more than a 100 percent increase in the great state of Arizona. They are going up over 100 percent, think of it.
And everybodys going to be going up like that. They gave a number of 25 percent average. They know thats not true. They wanted to try and get out of, you know -- get out in front -- they know thats not true. Its much more.
Youre going to have 60, 70, 80, 90 percent increases in Obamacare. We are going to repeal it and were going to replace it and we are going to get you great, great health care at a fraction of the cost.
One in five Americans trapped in Obamacare will have only a single insurer to choose from. Lots of luck in that negotiation. Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing Ive ever seen in the world, where people wind up paying, their premiums double and their coverage is cut in half.
Well, you know what? Hes right. But he suffered that night, I guarantee you that.
The Democrat governor of Minnesota said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Insurers are leaving, companies are fleeing, jobs are being lost, wages are being slashed. Its killing our businesses, its killing our small businesses, its killing individuals, and its no good.
Deductibles are so high, you cant use it, youll never get to use it. Job-killing Obamacare is just one more way that our system is rigged, believe me. Remember Jonathan Gruber of MIT, the architect of Obamacare. He said they could pass Obamacare because the stupidity of the American voter, the stupidity -- he called the American voter stupid.
The only stupidity was the stupidity -- and you know that -- and it is the stupidity of our politicians who rammed this monster down our throats. And Ill tell you, from the beginning I was against it. From the beginning I said it wasnt going to work, and it didnt work, it didnt work. And its going to get worse, and Hillary Clinton wants to keep it. She wants to spend a fortune on it. She wants to keep it, and your numbers are going to get up, up, up, and is going to get worse, worse, worse. Repeal it and replace it.
This morning I spent some time with the incredible employees at Trump National in Doral in Miami, which we own. Im proud of the fact that I employ thousands and thousands of people all over Florida, and the state is an amazing state. But Im also proud to provide them with benefits, including healthcare.
Unfortunately, a small number of the people that work at Trump National in Doral, which is Miami, they are on Obamacare, a small percentage. And as I said this morning, they are having tremendous difficulty. In fact, a lot of them have said, can you take me off Obamacare. Should I do it or not? Should I take them off?
Maybe I will. I will mention you folks when I do it. No, but its a small group but its a group thats having tremendous problems with Obamacare because of whats going on with the premiums. And whats going on with the deductibles. Again, they cant use it. But we are going to get these people help. We are going to get the people of the country help. We are going to start replacing it. We are going to have a great healthcare system in the United States, and a system that you can afford.
So remember, if you vote for Hillary Clinton, she wants to double down on Obamacare and make it even more expensive and worse. Repealing Obamacare...
Lock her up! Lock her up! Locker her up!
She should be locked up. Ill tell you right now. What shes done -- what shes done, she ought to be ashamed of herself. And you know what? Our government ought to be ashamed of itself for allowing it to happen.
Repealing Obamacare and stopping Hillarys health care takeover is one of the single most important reasons we must win on November 8th.
We have the power in our hands in just 14 days -- 14 days. Can you believe this? I started -- it was a year and a half. Now we are down to 14 days. We had unbelievably tough, nasty primaries. Were proud to say they were the most difficult and toughest primaries, they say, in the history of politics. So we end up, and now we have a nasty, nasty election.
But we have the facts on our side. Were going to bring back jobs, were going to get rid of Obamacare. We have so many facts that we are going to cut your taxes, shes going to raise your taxes, we are going to cut your taxes. We are going to save Social Security, shes going to cut your Social Security -- shes going to cut your Social Security, and your Medicare.
We have the power to deliver justice for every American who has been victimized by rising crime, and for every worker whose job has been shipped to another country. And for every child trapped in a failing, failing, horrible government school. We have the power to rebuild the inner cities betrayed by Hillary Clinton and the Democrats in Washington.
The African-American community has been betrayed, theyve been betrayed. And we are going to get tremendous African-American votes and were going to get tremendous Hispanic votes. These communities have been betrayed.
We have a chance to deliver justice for every taxpayer tired of watching their money being wasted in Washington, and for every single -- look, you know the story -- every single voter, every single voter; what has happened to our country? Who wants to fix a rigged system that takes your jobs, takes your freedom, and takes your voice away from you?
But together, we will defeat the rigged system and the corrupt media. There is nothing more corrupt than those people. Not all of them but most of them.
They are a corrupt group. Ill tell you what, I went to the last rally, we had thousands and thousands of people, and I was watching one of these terrible people. See, I know. And I was watching and they were saying, well, the crowd isnt expected to be big. We had an airport hangar that they couldnt use because it was a massive hangar, but the crowd was so much bigger. We just moved them out onto the runways. We had some crowd.
And look at this -- and we always have -- and by the way, all over the country we have. And you see whats going on? You see whats happening at the voting booths. You see whats happening. The lines are three blocks long. I cant tell you exactly, but I see a lot of Trump buttons, a lot of Trump hats, a lot of shirts. And we have a feeling, dont we, that they are going to be voting for Trump? I have a feeling.
And I have to tell you, we didnt need to do this -- I didnt need to do this. I was on the other side. You know, I talked about the other side. Who knows the other side better than me? I was on the other side. I also knew, because I saw what was happening. I love our country, I love this country, and I had no choice, and I jumped. So I was an insider, and the day I announced, boy, did I become an outsider. Wow. Amazing. I became an outsider, and I love it. Because were leading a movement the likes of which has never, ever been seen in this country. Theres never been a movement like this.
Even the pundits that hate me, they say there has never been an event like this in the history of our country, and we have to close it out on November 8th. And in your case, Florida, you can go tomorrow and do your thing. But you have to close it out. Otherwise, to me is a waste of time, energy, money...
Trump! Trump! Trump!
Thank you.
You know, I tell the story about one of the pundits. Not a good guy, but thats okay. He said it doesnt matter whether you win or lose. What youve done has never been done in politics. Theres never been anything like this. He said it doesnt matter. I said wait a minute, wait a minute. It totally matters. And I said, if I dont win, it will be a great waste, seriously, of time, energy and money, just a waste -- just a waste. So November 8th we have to win. Its one of the great movements of all time. Lets close it out. Lets knock out crooked Hillary Clinton, crooked as a three dollar bill -- She is as crooked as a three dollar bill.
Real change begins with ridding Washington of corruption. Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 e-mails, lied to Congress under oath, made 13 phones disappear -- some with a hammer, and then told the FBI she couldnt remember, 39 separate times. She couldnt remember, you know, her memory is a little bit off.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Weve also just learned that one of the closest people to crooked Hillary, with long-standing ties to her and her husband, gave -- listen to this one, folks. You know, we wonder how did she get away with this crime, when a four-star general, James Cartwright -- four-star -- one of the most respected men in the military, lied to the FBI once. He said he did it for national security purposes, and I can understand that. He lied one time to the FBI, and now they are going to put him in prison, perhaps for five years, just happened yesterday.
So -- listen to this, though, gave -- essentially its Hillary because the closest person in the world to Hillary and Bill is this person. They gave more than $675,000 to the campaign of the wife of the top official in the FBI, who oversaw the investigations into crooked Hillarys illegal e-mail server.
Some think of this -- no, no, think -- this is -- you couldnt do a movie like this, nobody would believe it. So the FBI is -- and I have such great respect for the people of the FBI. They must be going crazy watching whats happening at the top. They must be going -- these are great people.
So think of this. So the head of the FBI who was investigating her, has a wife who wants to run for some office. And they give her not $1,000, not $2,000, not $20,000, not $30,000 -- $675,000. Thats big money -- thats big money. Thats big money, which was a big percentage of the money she raised, $675,000 to run for office.
Now this is the man that is leading the investigation into her. His wife gets $675,000, essentially from Hillary Clinton. Folks, whats going on here? Whats going on? Our country is rigged, its crooked, and its broken. Im telling you, whats going on?
The criminal conduct of Hillary Clinton threatens the foundations of our democracy, and it really does. But were gonna turn it around. Were gonna turn it around, were gonna turn it around.
A new day begins for America and it starts on November 8th. Get out and vote.
I propose a contract with the American voter that will give government back to the people.
Its the way its supposed to be. My contract begins with a plan to end the rampant government corruption thats all over the place. I want everyone in Washington to listen closely to the message I am delivering on your behalf. I want all of the special interests who are used to getting their way -- and I fully understand that -- to pay very close attention.
I want the entire corrupt establishment to hear and heed the words we are all about to say. If we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C., and we are going to do what? Drain the swamp. It is so corrupt.
So corrupt. But have we ever seen corruption like the $675,000? Have we ever seen -- you know, I kept saying, how did she get away with this? She got a subpoena from the United States Congress, and after -- not before, that would have been bad -- but after getting the subpoena, she deleted 33,000 e-mails. So she gets a subpoena from this tremendously high authority. She says, this is bad news. Get rid of all the e-mails.
By the way, boxes of information and e-mails two weeks ago were also just found to be missing. You heard that, right? How is she entitled to run for the office of president? And by the way, this is part of the rigged system. The system is rigged, folks.
Under my contract with the American voter, we are proposing a series of ethics reforms on day one to end government -- right? To end government corruption. Those who violate the law will be brought to justice. There will no longer be two sets of rules in America. I mean, look at General Cartwright, look at General Petraeus. His life was destroyed. For doing nothing by comparison to what this crooked person did.
At the very core of my contract is the plan to bring back American jobs. We are bringing them back. Were going to stop the jobs from leaving our country. We are going to start making things again in America. Apple will start building factories and plants in this country, and we will make their products in the United States instead of China, Vietnam and all sorts of other countries.
Right now we are living through the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Thats whats happening. They are moving to Mexico. Its a highway, one lane right into Mexico. They get our jobs, our factories, our plants, they get our people -- they get everything, they get the cash.
I always say, they get the cash, we get the drugs and we get the unemployment. Not gonna happen -- not gonna happen.
We will build the wall, dont worry about that. We will build the wall.
Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!
Who is going to pay for the wall?
Mexico!
Thats not even close. And by the way, I met with the president of Mexico two months ago. He was a wonderful guy -- wonderful guy. Well have no trouble. They cant understand how they get away -- you know, we have a massive trade deficit -- massive, with Mexico. A massive trade deficit. And when people say, well, they will never pay for the wall -- of course they will, because they are making so much money. They make it at the border, they make it every way. Because their politicians are sharper and shrewder than our politicians.
You know, I went to an Ivy League school. I was a good student. And you know what? Theres no better word to describe it. Its a horrible word to use. Its not terrible, but I hate to use it but theres no better word. Our leaders are stupid people -- theyre stupid people, Im telling you. Obama, all this guy does is campaign for Hillary, who he cant stand.
And if you read what happened today with the server back and forth that he ended up knowing about, even though he said he didnt, it just came out on WikiLeaks he knew about it. And if you see now why -- you know, Im trying to figure out why is he backing her over Biden? Did you see where Biden wants to take me to the back of the barn. Me. Id love that. Id love that, Mr. tough guy. You know, hes Mr. tough guy. You know when hes Mr. tough guy? When hes standing behind a microphone by himself -- he wants to bring me to the back of the barn. Some things in life you could really love doing.
Our nation has lost -- and by the way, if I said that, theyd say, hes violent, how could he have done that? Did you see what happened the other day? It came out at our rallies -- we have the greatest rallies, the safest rallies, the greatest people. Is there ever a better place to be? Right?
But we had some rallies that were rough. Well, we had some bad people, and Id say they were bad people, and you know, the dishonest media would never say that. It came out that they paid thugs, thugs go to our rallies and beat people up. And they gave them $1,500 a day and an iPhone.
Heres the good news. Not so easy to beat our people up. They found that out. It was actually a painful experience. Painful experience.
But they paid $1,500, and the media doesnt report that. They didnt apologize to me. They were saying Donald Trumps rallies are out of control. They were putting people in our rallies to beat people up. Policemen with bad gashes on their head walking out. You saw it in Chicago. Walking out with blood pouring out of their head. These people were paid to do that. They should be imprisoned, these people. The people that organized it, thats organized violence. Thats real violence. And you know what, nothing would happen. Can you imagine if we did it?
And one other thing, crooked Hillary was given the questions to a debate, right? You saw that? Donna Brazile got the questions and gave them to Hillary Clinton. Now what Donna Brazile did was very dishonest, and she should resign as the head of the DNC. She should resign. What Donna Brazile did was very dishonest, but did anyone hear Hillary say, listen, I got the questions to the debate -- with Bernie Sanders -- I got the questions to the debate. I feel very uncomfortable. I know its wrong. Maybe Id like not to have that particular question. Wouldnt that have been nice? But shes crooked Hillary, so the chances of that happening are zero, folks -- are zero.
And you dont hear about that. Did anybody hear the story? She got the -- I wonder if she got the answers and the questions to the debate I just had because we beat her very easily, she was beaten.
And Ill tell you what. Did you see her after the debate? She was exhausted. You talk about low energy. I know some low energy people, but shes right in there.
Our nation has lost one-third of its manufacturing since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Hillary Clinton. Weve lost -- listen to this, you wont even believe this, and I have said for two weeks when I saw this number, its a typo, its got to be a typo. We have lost as a country 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, a Bill and Hillary-backed disaster.
Listen folks, 70,000 factories. You wouldnt think that was even possible. I thought it was 7,000 or 700. I said, you made a mistake. Its 70,000. Under my contract we will immediately begin renegotiating NAFTA, and if we dont get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers and our companies.
Its going to be America first. The next disaster on the horizon is the TransPacific Partnership, a nearly 6,000-page document that will drain our jobs and our freedoms. It will be another disaster. You cannot let it happen. If Im president, its not happening, folks. And we are gonna have a lot of trade, but were not going to make these many multi-nation -- were going to have one on one, on one, on one. Were going to have straight lines going right into different countries.
And you know what? If they misbehave, if they do something bad, its called a 30-day notice of cancellation. And you know what? During that 30 days they will come back and we will make a better deal. A Trump administration will stop the Transpacific Partnership. Hillary Clinton called the TPP the gold standard, and would approve 100 percent of it. Now during the debate she said she never called that the gold standard, right? But she lied, she lied. And during the debate, when I said line in the sand, right, the red line that our great president said, draw the line in the sand, right? Well, she said she wasnt secretary of State. She lied, she was, she was.
That came up in the next debate. By the way, you lied about this. Im sorry, I didnt mean it. She doesnt mean it. We wont let it happen because we will win on November 8th and we will protect every last American and every last American job.
If we dont stop the TPP, we will lose our economic independence for good. Its a big, big problem. Thats whats at stake in this election. This election has so many things going.
Number one, lower taxes, less regulation, and we get rid of Obamacare and we come up with a plan thats so much less expensive.
So what we are going to do are a few things. The tax reduction will give a middle-class family with two children a basic break of 35 percent. Families will be able to fully deduct the cost of childcare for their taxes. We will lower taxes on our businesses from 35 percent all the way down to 15 percent.
We will become a jobs-generating machine. We will be so proud of our country again. Were not going to lose our businesses. And if they decide to go and they want to make their air-conditioning unit, they want to make their car, they want to send it through the border, which now will become a very strong border -- guess what, folks? Thirty-five percent tax. Theyre never going to leave, theyre never going to leave.
We will be a rich nation again, but to be a rich country we must also be a safe country. Thats why my contract includes major investments in federal law enforcement efforts to dismantle criminal networks preying on our citizens, and thats what theyre doing.
I will also keep us safe from radical Islamic, right? Radical Islamic terrorists, radical Islamic terrorists. Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS and unleashed death and suffering across the Middle East, and spread it into our country. We are taking thousands and thousands of people from Syria. We have no idea where they come from. We have no idea who they are. They are not properly vetted. You will see over the years what a mistake that is. You will see. She wants to now increase the high number -- already we are taking in thousands, tens of thousands -- she wants to increase that number by 550 percent. You put her in as president, youre crazy.
Now she wants -- in her words -- totally open borders, there goes your country. There goes your country, which includes an open border with the Middle East. She wants to allow people to pour in. The Hillary plan would transform our country and leave us with generations of terrorism inside our shores.
A Trump administration is going to suspend immigration from terror-prone regions, and will suspend the Syrian refugee program immediately. We have no choice, we have no choice.
Let me state this as clearly as I can, if I am elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. We have enough problems, we have enough problems.
I will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build the wall, we will build the wall. It is so necessary.
And we will cancel all funding for sanctuary cities.
Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. In January of last year, Grant Ronnebeck, 21 years old, was working at a convenience store, a wonderful young guy in Mesa, Arizona, when he was shot point-blank in the head by an illegal immigrant. The killer was out on bond, roaming free, despite a massive arrest record, and everybody saying, please, dont let him go free, please. And he killed Grant.
In another incident, 25-year-old Spencer Golvach was sitting in his car at a stoplight after dropping off his girlfriend. An illegal immigrant in a pickup truck pulled up without notice, took out a gun, didnt say anything, looked at him, and shot him in the head, killed him immediately. The killer had been deported four times, had a lengthy criminal record, and people that knew him begged, please, dont let him in our country.
Ive spent time with Spencers mom Julie. Ive travelled the nation and met so many grieving parents whose children are dead because of our policies, headed by Obama and Clinton. The government failed these American families. Hillary Clinton betrayed these American families. Theyve been alone and suffering, abandoned by our nations failed leaders. And thats what they are, they are failed leaders in every way.
Look at our country, we dont win anymore. We cant beat ISIS, we cant win on trade, we cant win on healthcare, we dont win anymore. We are going to start winning in January, believe me.
Were going to start winning again.
Tonight we stand with these American victims and pledge an end to this long time nightmare of violence. I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers and the gang members. When I win, your long reign of crime and terror all over this country will come crashing to an end very quickly.
Everything will change in November. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days. To sum up, were going to have the biggest tax cut in history, and probably even greater. We can go back to Ronald Reagan, but I think its even going to be a little bit bigger than that. Were going to have the biggest tax cut. And remember this. We are the highest taxed nation anywhere in the world. And you know whats going to happen? We are going to have a big tax cut and jobs are going to come pouring back.
Were going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We are going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We are bringing education local.
Well rebuild our military, take care of our vets. Our veterans will be finally taken proper care of. How many vets do we have here?
A lot. We have a lot of vets. I love the vets. Were going to support the great men and women of law enforcement.
We will save our Second Amendment, which is under siege, folks. Its under siege.
And shes looking to do just the opposite. And I will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Im going to fight for every American in every part of this nation. Im going to fight to liberate our citizens from violence and poverty and fear, and the pain of having your voice ignored by your government for so, so long. I going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
And Im going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. Were a divided nation, were divided in so many different ways. We are a divided nation. Were going to come together -- finally were going to come together again.

I love you too. Hes a rough sounding guy, but whoever that guy is, I love him. Hes a rough looking, sounding guy. Who is that guy? Hes a rough guy ,but I do love him. I love everybody out here actually.
Just imagine...
... what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.
Once again, we will have a government of, by, and for the people.
Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
