Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Cedar Rapids, Iowa|June 21, 2017
Thank you, everybody. It is great to be back in the great state of Iowa...  ... home of the greatest wrestlers in the world, including our friend Dan Gable, some of the great, great wrestlers of the world, right? We love those wrestlers.
Its always terrific to be able to leave that Washington swamp...  ... and spend time...  ... with the truly hardworking people. We call them American patriots. Amazing people.  I want to also extend our congratulations this evening to Karen Handel of Georgia.  And we cant forget Ralph Norman in South Carolina. He called me and I called him...
He said, you know, last night I felt like the forgotten man. But he won, and he won really beautifully. Even though most people, a lot of people didnt show up because they thought he was going to win by so much. Its always dangerous to have those big leads. But he won very easily. And he is a terrific guy.
And Ill tell you what, Karen is going to be really incredible. Shes going to be joining some wonderful people and doing some wonderful work including major, major tax cuts and health care and lots of things.
Going to be reducing crime and were securing that Second Amendment. I told you about that. And that looks like its in good shape with Judge Gorsuch. That looks like its in good shape.  Id like to also take this moment to send our thoughts and prayers to our courageous friend, somebody that Ive gotten to know very well, Steve Scalise, and everyone...  ... recovering from the assault.  Never fails. Never fails.  And we love our police. We love our police.
So, to Steve we say -- and hes a great guy, was in my office the day before, incredible. Were praying for you. Were pulling for you. You have our absolute support and our deepest admiration.  And our gratitude goes out tonight as well to the Capitol Police officers who saved so many lives. You know, they ran from the outfield and they were being hit by rifle fire.
They only had handguns. And they were able to get him. It was an amazing show of talent and bravery.  So, we want to thank all of the police officers who so bravely serve and protect us. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Hopefully our nation emerges from this ordeal -- it was an ordeal, terrible -- more unified and more determined than ever before. And I can see it. And we are indeed more unified in our own way than ever before
You just have to take a look at whats happening here. Right?  If we set aside the cynics and the critics, we have a chance, and its a great chance. It lies before us to do extraordinary things for our country in the years ahead.
History is written by the dreamers, not the doubters.  So...  ... while we are here tonight to celebrate the amazing progress that weve already made, and we have made amazing progress...  ... were also here to lay out the next steps in our incredible movement to make America great again.
Everyone gathered in this arena is bound together by common values. You love our country. You obey our laws. You honor our traditions. And you care for your families. And you love your communities.  All you want is a government that shows you the same respect and loyalty in return. You believe that America must protect and defend its own citizens. With that conviction deep in your hearts, you showed up on Election Day, November 8th, and voted to put America first.
About time. Its about time.  And from the moment I took that solemn oath of office and every single day since, that is exactly what Ive done, put America first.  After years of sending our jobs and our wealth to other countries, we are finally standing up for our country. And you see it happening. You see it happening. You see whats going on.
Jobs are just about the best theyve ever been. Weve created almost $4 trillion in wealth if you look at your stock values and you look at whats going on with our country. But weve created tremendous wealth. The enthusiasm and spirit on every single index is higher than its ever been before for our manufacturers and for our companies.  After spending billions of dollars defending other peoples borders, we are finally going to defend our borders.
After decades of rebuilding foreign nations all over the world, we are now rebuilding our nation.  As of a few months ago, our country has spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, wasted. And the lives, the lives, thousands and thousands and thousands of lives. $6 trillion and thousands of young, beautiful lives.
We started 16 years ago and its in far worse shape than it was 16 years ago by many times over. So, we spent all of this money, all of these lives. And let me tell you, I came in and took over a very, very difficult hand. But were going to get it fixed. Thats what you put me here for. Were going to get it fixed.  Well get it fixed. Shame. Its a shame. And then you look at North Korea -- thank you. Then you look at your -- and Im praying for you. Thank you very much.
But you look at North Korea, whats going -- look at Otto, beautiful Otto. Went over there a healthy, wonderful boy and you see how he came back. You see how he came back. So, weve been given a bad hand. But were going to take that bad hand and itll all be good.
In addition to that, were going to start taking care of our country.  The people are the rulers of this country once again. One by one we are keeping the promises we made to the people of Iowa and the people all over our country. We are not going to let the same failed and tired voices in Washington keep us from delivering the change you voted for and the change that you deserve, that you deserve.
I do not answer to any donors or financial contributors. I dont care about them.  I am not beholden to any consultants or any of the very powerful special interests. I dont care about them. I have to do whats right. And if theyre right, thats good.  We will never be intimidated by the dishonest media corporations who will say anything and do anything  to get people to watch their screens or to get people to buy their failing papers.  They are failing.
These entrenched forces are fighting only for themselves, and in many cases for their survival. But Im fighting for you. Im fighting for you.  Fighting for your hopes because your hopes are my hopes. Ive had a great time in this country. Ive had a great run. And it was time to do something. We all saw what was happening. It was time to do something.
Your dreams are my dreams. And your future is what Im focused on each and every day. Were going to make America great again. Believe me. Were going to make America great again.  Here are just some of the historic accomplishments weve achieved in just a very short period of time. And I have to just preface it by saying  Thank you, darling.
I have to preface it by saying -- you know, Ive been watching. Theyre saying, President Trump has not produced health care. You know, Ive been there for five months.  If you remember during the Clinton period, they worked for years and years and years. They never got health care. Obama...  Although after listening to their testimony I fully understand. But President Obama, his whole administration pushing, pushing for Obamacare, which has now failed.
In fact, I was just told by your great governor and ex-governor that your insurance companies have all fled the state of Iowa. Pretty sad, isnt it? Well, theyre -- Ill tell you what, theyre going from every state. Theyre leaving all of the states.
Obamacare is a disaster. Its over. And theres nothing to compare what were doing. I think, I hope -- I hope the Republican Senate -- if we went and got the single greatest health care plan in the history of the world, we would not get one Democrat vote because theyre obstructionists. Theyre obstructionists.
We wouldnt get one Democrat...  If we came to you and said heres your plan. Youre going to have the greatest plan in history and youre going to pay nothing, theyd vote against it, folks.
Every, single vote. So, we have a very slim 52 to 48. That means we basically cant lose anybody. And I think and I hope, cant guarantee anything, but I hope were going to surprise you with a really good plan.
You know, Ive been talking about a plan with heart. I said, add some money to it, a plan with heart. But Obamacare is dead. But it is interesting how they say, Donald Trump is not producing health care, not producing. So, weve produced so much -- I dont think any president, it could be somebody, I have to be a little careful because theyll say, he lied.  So, few presidents, few -- just have to be a little careful because theyll say, headline: Donald Trump lies to the people of Iowa.
I dont want...  But very few have done what weve done when you look at the regulations, when you look at all of -- you know, they were saying, but he didnt pass legislative bills. I think its 38. And were going to be talking about them, 38. And if you listen to them...  Thirty-eight. But, but, but...  And some of them are really big, having to do with regulation, having to do with lots of different things.
But, were working really hard on massive tax cuts. It would be, if I get it the way I want it, the largest tax cut in the history of the United States of America.  Because... right now, we are one of the highest taxed nations in the world. Really on a large-scale basis, we are the highest tax nation in the world. And were going to get it down really low, OK? Really -- I dont say the lowest because there are a couple that are really down there. But that doesnt mean you want to be there.
But were going to have one of the lowest taxes from the highest tax. And were working hard on it. And I think its going to happen. And I tell you, I think health cares going to happen. And infrastructures going to happen. Youre going to have a lot of exciting things over the next few months. And I look forward to being able to produce it. Lets see what happens.  And...  And by the way, if we had even a little Democrat support, just a little like a couple of votes, youd have everything.
And you could give us a lot of votes and wed even be willing to change it and move it around and try and make it even better. Its going to have good heart, but even better. But again, they just want to stop. They just want to obstruct. A few votes...  Seriously. A few votes from the Democrats, it could be so easy and so beautiful and youd have cooperation.
And their plan isnt working because they thought they were going to win last night in Atlanta. They thought they were going to win.  And theyve been unbelievably nasty, really nasty. And they thought -- they spent close to $30 million on this kid who forgot to live in the community that he was in.
I mean, you know.  Look, Ill tell you about the Democrats. I am making it a little bit hard to get their support, but who cares?  Ill tell you about the Democrats. They raised a fortune for him. They fought like hell. They said they were going to win. All of the television networks, other than Fox, which really has treated us fairly, by the way.
They have.  But they built these studios, CNN...  Hey. Their camera just went off. I cant imagine.  Its covered live. Their camera just went off. I cant imagine why.
This phony -- this phony NBC television network.  They actually had one of the people say, you know, it was a little rainy last night. Maybe that was the difference in Karens race. Can you believe that?
But, but they had these beautiful studios. And if Karen Handel had lost, they wouldve blamed it on me, which is fine. But if she had lost, they wouldve been there for weeks talking about this. This wouldve been the greatest defeat in the history of American politics.
When she won, when they said projected winner is Karen Handel. Then they said, we switch to another program. Right? So...  It was so short. They couldnt get out of there fast enough.
And dont forget, this happened in Montana. Right? In Kansas...  Last night South Carolina with Ralph, who was expected to win and he won. California. So. But its been -- its been incredible.
So, were 5 and 0. Were 5 and 0. And...  And they thought they were going to win at least like three, right, wouldnt you say? At least three. And it would be a devastating defeat.
The truth us, people love us, all of us. They love us.  They dont get it. They havent figured it out yet. You know, theyre still trying to figure where all of those voters came from. Those voters came out of the hills. They came -- these are hardworking -- we have the hardest working, the smartest people, the toughest people.
Theyre very lucky that our people dont protest, believe me. Believe me.  Theyre very lucky.  We have them. We have the smart ones. We have the toughest ones. Great, great Americans.
And Hillary said the deplorables. These are just the opposite, believe me, of the deplorables. These are just the opposite.  We have a group, Bikers for Trump. You ever seen? They come by the thousands. Oh.  Oh. My man. Look. How are you?
We have the -- I didnt know you were here. Theyre here. Now we know were protected. Thats great. Good to have you, man. These are great people. And when I see them, I say, now were safe. And they like Trump. And I guess were well into the 90s. What do you think? The 90s, 95s. But we love our people. And they love us. And more importantly, they love our policy. They love what were doing.
You see what were doing. You see what weve already done. Homebuilders are starting to build again. Were not confiscating their land with ridiculous rules and regulations that dont make sense. Farmers are able to plow their field.  If they have a puddle in the middle of their field, a little puddle the size of this, its considered a lake and you cant touch it.
And if you touch it, bad, bad things happen to you and your family. We got rid of that one too, OK?  Unemployment is at a 16-year low. And manufacturing is doing phenomenally. And we have companies moving back.
Theyre coming back, back, back.  You know, in the state of Michigan, which has just been like an exit pool where car companies have left. I told them, you know what, you want to start leaving, you want to fire all these people? You watch what were going to be doing. You watch what were going to be doing. Not going to be too long.
We have the legendary Wall Street genius Wilbur Ross here. Hes our secretary of Commerce.  We have Gary Cohn whos the president of Goldman Sachs. Thats somebody. Hes the president of Goldman Sachs. He had to pay over $200 million in taxes to take the job, right? So, somebody said, why did you appoint a rich person to be in charge of the economy?
I said -- no, its true. And Wilburs a very rich person in charge of Commerce. I said, because thats the kind of thinking we want. I mean, you know, really. Because theyre representing the country. They dont want the money. Theyre representing the country.  And they had to give up a lot to take these jobs. They gave up a lot.
When you get the president, this is the president of Goldman Sachs, smart. Having him represent us. He went from massive pay days to peanuts, to little, tiny -- Im waiting for them to accuse him of wanting that little amount of money. They wanted that.
But these are people that are great, brilliant business minds. And thats what we need. Thats what we have to have so the world doesnt take advantage of us.  We cant have the world taking advantage of us anymore.  And I love all people, rich or poor. But in those particular positions, I just dont want a poor person. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? If you insist, Ill do it. But I like it better this way, right?
So, weve achieved a historic increase in defense spending. And weve created a new Office of Accountability at the V.A., our veterans, to ensure that our veterans...  ... get the care that they so richly deserve, our veterans. Weve eliminated restrictions on the production of American energy. They wanted to take away our wealth. The world wanted to take away our wealth.
We happened to be lucky. Under our feet we have great wealth. Not only in the form of your kind of wealth, which is beautiful, fertile soil, but also in other locations in the form of energy. They wanted to take that power and that wealth away from us.
And weve ended the war on clean, beautiful coal. And were putting our miners back to work.  In fact, you read about it, last week a brand, new coal mine just opened in the state of Pennsylvania, first time in decades, decades.  Weve reversed...  And 33,000 mining jobs have been added since my inauguration.
And again, were going to have all forms of energy. But coal is something we have a tremendous advantage at. But were going to have all, whether its natural gas, whether its alternative sources. Were going to have everything.
But a power, its called, its a power for our electric different plants and for our furnaces. Its a power. We use electric. We use wind. We use solar. We use coal. We use natural gas. We will use nuclear if the right opportunity presents itself.
Were going to be strong for the future. Were going to be strong for the future. I dont want to just hope the wind blows to light up your homes and your factory.  As the birds fall to the ground.  But I like all of them. And thats what we need.
And by the way, were saving your ethanol industries in the state of Iowa, just like I promised I would do in my campaign.  And believe me, they are under siege, folks. I dont know if you know it, but they are under siege. Weve approved, first day, the Keystone XL Pipeline and the Dakota Access Pipeline. First thing. Day one.  Thirty-eight thousand jobs. And better for the environment, by the way, better. Underground. Better for the environment. And safer.
Can you imagine the executive for Keystone, who a year-and-a-half ago was told its dead? And they had billions invested. They bought half of the pipe. And somebody walks into his office, probably a consultant that charged him tens of millions of dollars. Sir, the pipeline was just approved.
Now, you know what hes going to do. He said, I did a great job, sir. Im entitled to millions of dollars in consulting fees. It was just Trump approving the pipeline. We approved it. We approved it. Its good for the country.  My man.
And by the way, speaking of that, when Im signing for the XL Pipeline and the Dakota, I said, by the way, who made the pipe? You dont want to know.  Donald Trump
Now, in all fairness to them, they bought a lot of their pipe already. So, its a little hard to say throw that away, were giving you, you know. But I put a little clause, handwritten. It said, anybody builds a pipeline in the United States will use American steel and fabricate in America.  No more taking it over on boats.  Very simple.
We signed 39 pieces of legislation. That means going through Congress, folks. Because you know they tell you, these guys, the fake news. They tell you...  Its fake news, fake.  Not all of it. Some of its good. And some of the people are great, actually. But some are real bad and theyre really fake.
But if you listen to them, we didnt pass any -- we passed 39 -- Im not talking about executive orders, which weve signed a lot. I mean, we have really signed a lot. And weve gotten rid of a lot of really bad pieces that were signed by President Obama, believe me.  But, if you listen to the fake news, they say like, he didnt pass any legislation. Everythings -- thats wrong. Thirty-nine pieces as of today, some of them very important.
Now, my biggest pieces are yet to come. Hopefully taxes. Hopefully health care. Hopefully infrastructure. And when they come, that wont be good enough either. See who it was.  But weve also done a record number of resolutions to eliminate the job-killing regulations on our workers, our companies and our farmers. Theyre gone. Theyre gone.  We are ending the federal intrusion into your family farms and your ranches.
And were also working very, very hard to get rid of the death tax so that you can pass your farms onto your children and onto your grandchildren.  I dont know if were going to pull that one off, but were working very hard to do it. Right, Chris?  This way you can pass your motorcycle on, OK. Forget about the farm. Thats not so bad either. Ive seen what you -- what you ride. Not so bad.
But were working on -- I dont know if that ones going to get pulled off, but it should because you should have a right. Why should you be double taxed? You should have a right to pass your farm onto your children and onto your grandchildren. You should have that right.  Without having them...
Without having them going out and borrowing a fortune, not being able to make payments, losing it to the banks. Its not fair. So, were working hard. Lets see if we pull it off. Were going to try very hard, I can tell you.
I dont know, but were going to try.  No longer will the EPA be telling you how to run your business or do your job or live your life. Instead, it will focus on its true mission, clean air and clean, beautiful, crystal water. Nice, beautiful, clean water. Thats what we want, right? Right?  Were also ending the last administrations federal land grab. We believe states, communities and private land owners know best how to manage their own resources. Weve made a lot of progress in that, Ryan Zinke.
We want to see local control. That also means were not going to let foreign bureaucrats plan our economy or tell Americans how to run their country.  You know what I mean.  When I campaigned for president, I promised to renegotiate or to leave any deal which fails to serve Americas interests. And Im not going to allow other countries to take advantage of the United States any longer.
And for that reason...  ... I totally cut off negotiations. I will not do our great, what is it? TPP? Yes? You guys werent listening about it huh?  But for that reason -- and that too.
As you know, I formally announced that the United States will withdraw from the disastrous Paris Climate Accord...  Its a disaster. Its a disaster.  And by the way, Trans-Pacific Partnership, we dont even talk about it anymore because that was done early. But Trans-Pacific Partnership, bye-bye. That was another NAFTA catastrophe that were going to, by the way, renegotiate.
You know I announced Im going to get rid of NAFTA. And Ive always told you -- or either renegotiate or terminate NAFTA. So, I announced that essentially I was going to terminate. But I got a very, very nice call from Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada...  From the president...  ... a good guy, of Mexico asking me not to terminate it, could we negotiate? And Im always willing to negotiate.
Im always willing. So, well see.  Well see how it ends.  But its been very unfair to the United States. All you have to do is look at all the empty buildings, all the empty plants and factories all over the country. NAFTA has been a disaster. So, were going to either renegotiate it successfully, which would be my first choice. Or were going to terminate it and thats going to be that.
Now, the Paris Agreement, and its amazing how the people of this country get it because the press covers it so unfairly. The Paris Agreement wouldve cost America millions of lost jobs and billions and billions of lost dollars, and put us at a permanent economic disadvantage. China doesnt kick in until 2030.
I could tell you stories. I could give you stats. I could go on all day. Its a catastrophe if we wouldve agreed. And they all say its nonbinding. Like hell its nonbinding. When we get sued by everybody because we thought it was nonbinding, then you can tell me it was nonbinding.
I was elected to serve the citizens of Iowa and Pennsylvania and Ohio and Michigan...  ... and Wisconsin and Florida and all 50 states and all 320 million American citizens.  By the way, this is a big place. This place.
And you know, I used to say during the campaign, Im sure it hasnt changed. But were not even campaigning and look at this crowd. So, you know its easier during a campaign. The place is packed with thousands of people trying to get in. Look at the size of this place. Theyll never show the crowd.  Theyll never show the crowd. Theyll never show the crowd.
Thats the only good thing about the protesters, which we dont have very much of. I mean, this guys blowing a whistle, you know.  Hes the Bernie Sanders guy.  But, but we dont have -- but when we do have one, the only good thing is the cameras have to go, and they have to go sometimes up into the little corners way up in that arena. Every seat is packed. Look at that.  Every seat. Every corner is packed of this big, big arena. So, its an honor.
Wouldnt it be great if they showed -- you know, its funny, I go home and my wife would say, Melania, who, by the way, has become very popular.  Theyre liking her. Theyre liking her.  But shed say, I never saw the crowd, but it sounded like a lot of people. You know, you could tell. You cant imitate the sound of this many people. This is not like 500 people. This is big stuff. You cant imitate that. You know what they dont understand? They get these massive ratings. I hate to give it.
They probably charge a -- I know they charge a fortune. But all those television cameras, all those live ones. And I hate to do this, but they get even better ratings if they show that. And I try and convince them, but that they cant do. They just cant mentally handle that one, so its whatever.  But it is, its such a great crowd. So, to all of those people watching, its an unbelievable place.
It is a big, beautiful arena and it is packed.  So, as you may know, there is another absolutely terrible deal from the previous administration. See how nice I am? I say the previous administration as opposed to the Obama administration.  That I have recently rescinded. Last week I announced that we are canceling the prior administrations completely one-sided deal with the Castro regime in Cuba.
Isnt it amazing? Obama can deal with Cuba, kills thousands of people, people in prison, horrible to women, horrible to every -- can deal with Iran. You talk about bad? The gays, the women, the -- bad to everybody, kill, brutal. I deal with anybody, but Donald Trump is a terrible human being. Its unbelievable isnt it? Isnt it unbelievable?  Its unbelievable.
But America will stand strong against Communist oppression. We will make a much better deal. I mean, the fact is the deal with Cubas a bad deal. Well probably make a deal. Or maybe we wont. Maybe we wont. But you know what? If we make a deal, its going to be a fair deal and a good deal for us. Its not going to be a one-sided giveaway.  Were also fighting every single day to achieve those fair trade deals for American factories, and your farmers and your ranches.
Heading up our effort to represent Americas interest in China will be a man you know very well. I just left an event where I honored him, introduced him to a crowd of people that adore him. To discuss how to create -- I mean, hes been doing this for years in Iowa. Hes the longest serving governor in American history. And now he carries the title of Ambassador to China, Terry Branstad.  Hes a fantastic guy.
You know I told the story today. I said, I come here to make a speech. We have a big crowd in Iowa. And Terry would come and say -- at that time he didnt call me Mr. President. He called me Donald. I said, thats OK. I didnt think about. Now if he called me Donald Id be very angry with him, right?  But he said, Donald, could you do me a favor?
Dont say anything bad about China. We do a lot of business with China. I like China a lot. Ive known President Xi for a long time. I really like him. And he also, by the way, likes Terry a lot. And just please dont say anything bad about China. Which is hard for me to do.  And I wouldnt.
But then when I won and were looking for somebody to represent us with China, which is a very, very powerful country, and weve had a very good relationship with China, in all fairness, and I do like President Xi. I wish we would have a little more help with respect to North Korea from China, but that doesnt seem to be working out.  But I do like the president a lot.
So, when I was thinking of who am I going to make the ambassador to China, after you know, having a good, retentive mind. I said you know I remember about a year ago when Terry Branstad was saying all of these great things, your governor.
So, I called him up and I said listen, youve been doing this for 24 years. You want to do something else? Like how would you like to be ambassador to China? And I didnt think hed really do it.  Its a long trip. Twenty-one hours? Thats a lot of plane time.
But he wants to do whats right for the country. And I said to him tonight, I said, I wasnt sure you were going to do it. He said, when my president calls me to help him with our great country, I do it. Thats what he said to me. I thought it was nice.  Thought it was nice. Right?
So, central to that economic agenda is a plan to restore Americas crumbling infrastructure. We will rebuild not only America, but we will rebuild rural America.  In this great national rebuilding, we will follow two simple rules.
We will buy American and we will hire American.  We want to get our people off of welfare and back to work.  We also want to preserve our safety net for struggling Americans who truly need help. We want to help them, people who truly need help, right, Chris? We want to help those people.  But others dont treat us fairly.
Thats why I believe the time has come for new immigration rules which say that those seeking admission into our country must be able to support themselves financially and should not use welfare for a period of at least five years.  And well be putting in legislation to that effect very shortly.
Another core principle is that those coming to our country must embrace our values and love our people.  And yes, we will build the wall. Weve already started planning. It will be built.  We will build the wall. We need it. We need it. We have to stop the drugs from flowing in.
You know, people dont realize, were already spending a lot of money on design. But Ill give you an idea that nobody has heard about yet. And Im not sure, but Im a builder. Thats what I love to do. Thats probably what I do best. Im a builder.
And were thinking of something thats unique. Were talking about the southern border, lots of sun, lots of heat. Were thinking about building the wall as a solar wall so it creates energy and pays for itself.  And this way, Mexico will have to pay much less money. And thats good, right? Is that good.  Youre the first group Ive told that to, a solar wall. Makes sense. Lets see. Were working it out. Well see. Solar wall, panels, beautiful.
I mean actually think of it. The higher it goes, the more valuable it is. Its like...  Pretty good imagination, right? Good? My idea. So, we have a good shot.
Thats one of the places that solar really does work, the tremendous sun and heat. It really does work there. So, well see what happens with that. That would be great. And I think we could make it look beautiful too. It would really look beautiful. So, that would be nice.
Were also working night and day to restore law and order to our country, law and order.  You know that.  Were reversing the last administrations soft on crime policies that helped enable a tragic rise in violent crime. You see whats happening. Look at Chicago. What the hell is going on in Chicago? Whats that all about?
We have also issued new directives to protect our police officers and our sheriffs.  And well always stand with the incredible men and women of law enforcement.  All American children, no matter where they live, have the right to grow up in a safe community. No issue is more central to public safety than the issue of immigration and border security.
After years of lawlessness, the United States is now enforcing our laws, first time in a long time. And protecting our workers, our schools and our families. Since I was elected, illegal border crossings, and this is without the wall.
Before the wall, have decreased by more than 75 percent, a historic and unprecedented achievement.  So, were building the wall on the southern border. Weve got the greatest security people in the world. Ill tell you, ICE and the Border Patrol folks, these are incredible people.
You know they endorsed me when I ran for president, knowing that if I win theyre going to have to work much, much harder. But they love this country, and they want the job done, and they want the job done right. They have to work harder and its much more dangerous.
The other thing that I have to tell you. You have a gang called MS-13.  A friend of mine whos a very, very high-level police officer said to me in describing them, they are the equivalent or worse than al-Qaeda. I would say thats a bad statement.
They dont like to shoot people. They like to cut people. They do things that nobody can believe. These are true animals. We are moving them out of the country by the thousands, by the thousands.  And the people moving them out are guess what, a hell of a lot tougher and meaner than they are. But theyre on our side.  Were getting them out, MS-13.
During my campaign for president, I met with the families of Americans killed by illegal immigrants, many, many families. Including the parents of Sarah Root, a 21-year-old Iowa girl who was killed the day after she graduated from college with a 4.0 GPA.
Do you know what that is? To those of you who dont know, that means solid As straight across, number one student. Thousands of beautiful American lives like Sarahs have been stolen for the simple reason that our government has refused to enforce already existing laws. The media, these people, like to talk about...  ... separating families.
But the families they never talk about are the American families separated forever from the ones they love because we dont protect our borders and uphold the immigration laws of the United States.  These families and the victims have been ignored totally by the media. They were ignored by the consultants. Theyve been ignored by Washington.
But these Americans were not ignored by me or by you, and we know who they are.  And they rise now to the highest level. They rise to the highest level. I promise those families the deaths of their loved ones will not have been in vain, and that we will take strong and forceful action to fulfill our sacred duty to save and protect American lives.  Every single day we are finding these gang members, these drug dealers, thieves, robbers, predators, criminals, killers, horrible killers, and we are throwing them the hell out of our country.
And when theyre gone, our now very strong borders, especially with the wall, will never allow them back in.  So, were doing a lot of things. Were very proud of what weve done. Just as Gorsuch was a big, big deal. Big deal.  Somebody explained it to be beautifully. They said, when you pick a Supreme Court judge, you want great intellect, you want all of the things. But you also want youth because theyll be there for 40 years.
So, if Judge Gorsuch, who Ive gotten to know, who I think is a fantastic human being, aside from being a brilliant, brilliant student and person, and one of the great legal writers that exists in our country, probably in the world, today.
Every time you see a decision written over the next 30 or 40 years, and especially if its a 5 to 4 decision, like perhaps on Second Amendment or so many other things, you have done something that you cant value. Its so important.
Think of it. For a 30- to 40-year period, potentially, youve influenced this country. And Ive always heard long that just about the most important thing you can do. I always say defense. But perhaps outside, because we are going to have a strong military and strong defense and we need it now.  But Ive always heard that the most important thing a president can do is pick a great Supreme Court justice.
So, Ive got one. Probably have some more. But it is really important. And think of that. Over years and years those decisions that are so important, values, great values.
So, Im very, very proud of that pick. Hes already been there now for almost two months. And people are saying wow, that is a tremendous person and a tremendous intellect. So, were all very proud of that pick. And you made it possible.  So, I began this campaign on June 16th, a couple of days ago two years. Its my birthday on June 14th, Flag Day of all things.
And we came down the escalator, that famous escalator ride. Melania, myself. And the place went nuts. And hopefully because they like me, but I think also they like the policies. I said the truth.
I talked about immigration. I talked about what was happening on the borders. I talked about our military. I talked about the drug problems which are tremendous. Even in Iowa, tremendous problems beyond anything weve ever seen before. I talked about all of it.
And you know what? We were never off center stage in the debates. We stayed -- you know what that means. We were number one all the way through, all the way through. We were number one all the way through because of people like you. Never off center.  Seventeen people running. I kept looking up and down. I said, boy thats a lot of people.
Some of them very talented. But 17 people running. We were never off center stage in those debates. And thats because of people like yourselves because you agree with me. And we are making such incredible progress. We are making progress like nobody can believe. These people are being driven crazy, crazy.  I mean, they have phony witch hunts going against me. They have everything going. And you know what? All we do is win, win, win. We won last night. They cant believe it. Theyre saying what is going on? What is going on?
We won last night. And even the worst of them said, that was a big win for Trump. I couldnt believe it actually. Thank you very much, folks. I appreciate it. But we have made a journey together like no other ever in the history of this country. And maybe beyond that. But you look in the history of this country, theres never been anything like this thats happened. Were straightening out through common sense and through a good heart, were straightening out our country. Were straightening out our country.
No matter our beliefs, no matter our party, its time for us to remember that we are all Americans and that we are in this together. And it would be great if the Republicans and the Democrats could come together and get really, really great legislation passed.  Some of the geniuses were saying this morning, you know, from the time he announced on June 16th two years ago, theyve been hitting the hell out of him.
Hillary took almost all negative ads. The problem was, when people went to vote, they didnt know what she stood for other than she was saying bad things about me. And I almost became like...  So, from the time I announced, Ive been hit, hit, hit. Then from the time I got in, I said oh, this is going to be great. Finally, we can all come together.
They hit me harder, harder, harder. Theyve now learned, I think, that that doesnt work.  Five and 0. Five and 0. It doesnt work.  They need to be positive. They cant continue to be obstructionists. Thats all they have going.
So, they should come together. I dont think they will. But I will tell you, it will be a beautiful, beautiful thing if we could get together as two parties that love our country and come up with that great health care, and come up with that great tax deal for our people and tax reform. And infrastructure and so many other great things.
Just think about what a unified American nation could achieve. Nobody could even come close to us. And by the way, even if were not totally unified, nobodys coming close to us here. Dont worry about it. Gleaming new roads and bridges that would inspire awe and wonder all over the world. You know, we used to be the leader in airports. We had the most beautiful airports.
Now were more like a third world country. LaGuardia, Newark, LAX, Kennedy. Theyre like third-world airports. Take a look. Take a look. We used to be the leader. Now you go to Saudi Arabia, where I just came back. A monumental, epic trip because I said you cannot continue to fund terrorism. You cannot continue to fund terrorism.  And the king of Saudi Arabia, who is really become just hes a very special man.
I mean that. He has taken it to heart. And now theyre fighting with other countries that have been funding terrorism. And I think we had a huge impact. We will see. But I think we had a tremendous impact.
We cannot let these incredibly rich nations fund radical Islamic terror or terrorism of any kind. We cannot let it happen. Cannot let it happen.  It was one of the great two days of my life. And Im sure a lot of you watched it on television. Fifty-four Muslim nations coming together, some immensely powerful, wealthy nations, and every  was unified and  werent theyre trying to get them to be unified and to do the right thing. I think it could have a tremendous impact.
But not only that, I said for me to go Im only going, we had to negotiate, if you spend billions of dollars, billions, on having things manufactured in our country with our jobs and our workers for your country. And hundreds of billions of dollars was spent and given to American companies who are going to make American products and send those products over to the wealthy countries of the Middle East.
I mean hundreds of billions of dollars.  And people havent talked about that. But to me that was very important because we want those jobs. We want those jobs. So, theyre making  sorts of things. Hundreds of billions of dollars. And its going back. And Im very proud of that. Thats something people dont talk about because the real purpose of my being there was to make sure these countries do not fund terror any longer.  So, I just want to leave Iowa. I said that Id come back. Oh, I love that youre not -- look. Look at that.
You know Im going to leave. I dont want to leave either. I dont want to leave either. I dont want to leave either. But I said I would come back. And I made lots of statements to your governor and to your current governor. Kim is going to be a fantastic governor. Shes here.  Shes going to be a fantastic governor.
But I said that I was going to come back. I said that I was going to protect your ethanol, for good reason. Only for good reason. And it was a very important to me. I said that I was going to do things for the people of Iowa. And I want to let you know, Ive done it for the people of Iowa, but Ive really done it for the people of our country.
Our country is getting stronger, its getting better. Were going to be setting records in so many different ways. Were going to straighten out all of the mess thats happened over the last long period of time where we went into other nations to tell them how to run their country, and we had no idea.
