Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Delivers Remarks On the Opioid Crisis|March 19, 2018
Thank you to our First Lady, Melania, who has been so incredible. [Applause] Thank you. And we are blessed to have you as our First Lady. Really are.
It's great to be back in the beautiful state of New Hampshire. [Applause] I don't know if you remember, but this is the first place I came for the primaries. [Applause] And this is the room right here. So I like this room. This has been a good room.
We're honored to be joined by your wonderful and very talented Governor, Chris Sununu. Chris, thank you. [Applause] Thank you, Chris. Oh, and there's another talented governor. Governor Sununu, stand up. [Applause] I have to tell you, there was nobody tougher on Trump at the beginning. [Laughter]
It's true. There was nobody on television tougher. And then we met each other and we liked each other, and he went from the worst to the best. Governor, thank you. I mean that, too. Thank you.
I want to thank also Attorney General Sessions, and Secretary -- thank you, Jeff. -- [Applause] -- Secretary Azar, Secretary Nielsen, and Surgeon General Adams for joining us at this very important event.
The First Lady and I just visited the Manchester Fire Department Safe Station. Talking about it all over the country. The Fire Chief, Dan Goonan, and all of the first responders with us today, thank you. You've been incredible, and you're saving American lives.
We're also joined by a number of law enforcement officers who we love. Our police, DEA, ICE, Border Patrol agents, and Customs officers work night and day to keep drugs out of our communities and criminals off of our streets. [Applause]
So today, we thank you, we honor you, and we want you to know that we will always have your backs 100 percent. Thank you very much, law enforcement. Thank you. [Applause]
I especially want to acknowledge all of the families with us today who have endured terrible hardships because of the opioid crisis, and especially those who have lost precious loved ones.
I've been saying this for a long time, and it all started right here in New Hampshire, because I see what you're going through. About as bad as there is anywhere in the country. And I said I'd be back, and we are back. And we're pouring a lot of money and a lot of talent into this horrible problem. And we pledge to honor the memory of those you lost with action and determination and resolve.
We'll get it. We will not rest until the end. And I will tell you, this scourge of drug addiction in America will stop. It will stop. [Applause]
Every day, 116 Americans die from an opioid-related overdose. In New Hampshire, the overdose, really, death rate -- I mean, can you believe this? The death rate is double the national average. It's got difficulties like people wouldn't believe.
Defeating this epidemic will require the commitment of every state, local, and federal agency. Failure is not an option. Addiction is not our future. We will liberate our country from this crisis. Never been like this. Hundreds of years -- never been like this. And we will raise a drug-free generation of American children.
Last October, we declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency. Should have been done a long time before. Since then, we've worked with Congress to ensure at least 6 billion additional dollars, going through right now, in new funding in 2018 and 2019 to combat the opioid crisis. And we will be spending the most money ever on the opioid crisis. [Applause]
On our most recent National Prescription Drug Take Back Day, people across the country turned in more than 900,000 pounds of unused or expired prescription drugs -- more than the weight of three Boeing 757s.
Our Customs and Border Protection -- and these people, the job they do is incredible -- seized nearly 1,500 pounds of fentanyl last year, nearly three times the amount seized in 2016. And I told China: Don't send it. [Applause] And I told Mexico: Don't send it. Don't send it.
In 2017, ICE arrested criminal aliens with 76,000 charges and convictions for dangerous drug crimes.
Last year, the Department of Justice prosecuted more than 3,000 defendants in cases involving opioid, all of the trafficking, and the related crimes -- 3,000 cases -- including a pharmacist, a physician's assistant, and an opioid trafficker, each charged with committing serious drug crimes in New Hampshire.
Whether you are a dealer or doctor or trafficker or a manufacturer, if you break the law and illegally peddle these deadly poisons, we will find you, we will arrest you, and we will hold you accountable. [Applause] Thank you.
Here in New Hampshire, I applaud all of the Drug Enforcement Agents and law enforcement officers who recently coordinated Operation Granite Shield, an 18-hour enforcement action targeting drug traffickers that resulted in the arrest of 151 people.
These are terrible people, and we have to get tough on those people, because we can have all the Blue Ribbon committees we want, but if we don't get tough on the drug dealers, we're wasting our time. Just remember that. We're wasting our time. And that toughness includes the death penalty. [Applause]
You know, it's an amazing thing. Some of these drug dealers will kill thousands of people during their lifetime -- thousands of people -- and destroy many more lives than that.
But they will kill thousands of people during their lifetime, and they'll get caught and they'll get 30 days in jail. Or they'll go away for a year, or they'll be fined. And yet, if you kill one person, you get the death penalty or you go to jail for life.
So if we're not going to get tough on the drug dealers who kills thousands of people and destroy so many people's lives, we are just doing the wrong thing. We have got to get tough.
This isn't about nice anymore. This isn't about committees. This isn't about let's get everybody and have dinners, and let's have everybody go to a Blue Ribbon committee and everybody gets a medal for, frankly, talking and doing nothing. This is about winning a very, very tough problem. And if we don't get very tough on these dealers, it's not going to happen, folks. It's not going to happen. And I want to win this battle.
I don't want to leave at the end of seven years and have this problem, okay? [Applause] I don't want that. Right? Thank you. Not going to happen. Thank you all. A lot of voters in this room. I see that. Thank you. [Applause] No, we're going to solve this problem.
We're going to solve it with brains, we're going to solve it with resolve, and we're going to solve it with toughness. Because toughness is the thing that they most fear. That's what they most fear. So to the brave agents and officers, thank you for protecting us all.
Last year, my commission on combatting the incredible crisis of opioids issued 56 recommendations. My administration agreed with all of the commission's goals, and we've worked aggressively to put them into action.
Today, I'm here to announce additional steps that we're taking as part of our nationwide initiative to address the opioid crisis, and, by the way, the drug crisis -- the general drug crisis.
First, we're taking action to reduce drug demand by preventing Americans from becoming addicted in the first place. So important. That includes increasing federal funding for the development of non-addictive painkillers. And we have to come up with a solution where we come up with a painkiller that's not so addictive. And we can do it. We're not that far off. We can do it. These things are incredibly addictive. So we're going to find that answer also.
Here with us today are Jim and Jean Mozer. They lost their beautiful son, Adam, to a fentanyl overdose. His addiction began with prescription pills he found in their kitchen cabinet. They have since begun the Zero Left initiative to help families get rid of excess painkillers.
Jim and Jean, we're sorry for your loss -- a great boy; he's a great boy -- and we applaud your strength and your leadership. And where are you? Where are you? Come on up. Come on up here. Come on up here. [Applause] Tell us about your boy.
Adam was our oldest son. He was a great kid. He was a smart kid. Grew up out in rural East Kingston, New Hampshire. He had a degree in actuarial science, which, as many of you know, that's the science of forecasting risk.
He was the kind of kid that made you feel really good about yourself. You give him five minutes; you really liked him. And, you know, he just made a bad choice one night. As smart as he was, he found his way into our kitchen cabinet.
And, sadly, the rest is history. He got hooked on it, and had to go to the street eventually. And he found fentanyl. And he's been gone for two-and-a-half years, and we miss him every day. Thank you.
Thank you, darling. You take care of yourself. Okay?
Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you very much. [Applause] Thank you. Appreciate it. And so many cases like that. We're also taking action to prevent addiction by addressing the problem of overprescribing. [Applause]
And our Department of Justice is looking very seriously into bringing major litigation against some of these drug companies. We'll bring it at a federal level. [Applause] Some states are already bringing it, but we're thinking about bringing it at a very high federal level. And we'll do a job.
We're going to cut nationwide opioid prescriptions by one-third over the next three years. We're also going to make sure that virtually all prescriptions reimbursed by the federal government follow best practices for prescribing. We'll ensure that opioid addiction is not subsidized by the American taxpayer. [Applause]
The best way -- so important -- and the best way to beat the drug crisis is to keep people from getting hooked on drugs to begin with. As part of that effort -- [Applause] -- so important.
And this has been something that I've been very strongly in favor of: spending a lot of money on great commercials showing how bad it is, so that kids seeing those commercials during the right shows on television or wherever -- the Internet -- when they see these commercials they -- I don't want any part of it.
That's the least expensive thing we can do, where you scare them from ending up like the people in the commercials. And we'll make them very, very bad commercials. We'll make them pretty unsavory situations. And you've seen it before, and it's had an impact on smoking and cigarettes. You see what happens to the body; you see what happens to the mind.
So we're announcing a new website, CrisisNextDoor.gov, where Americans can share their stories about the danger of the opioid addiction and addictions.
But we're thinking about doing, really, a largescale rollout of commercials that show how bad it is for the kids. And when they see those commercials, hopefully, they're not going to be going to drugs of any kind -- drugs of any kind. And we'll save a lot of lives, and we'll make their life a lot easier.
This epidemic can affect anyone, and that's why we want to educate everyone.
The second part of our initiative is to reduce the supply of illicit drugs. Ninety percent of the heroin in America comes from our southern border, where, eventually, the Democrats will agree with us and we'll build the wall to keep the damn drugs out. [Applause, Audience Chants Build that wall]

It's pretty amazing. They don't want to go with DACA, because they don't care about DACA. But they're trying to tie the wall to DACA, and DACA to the wall. And they want to keep DACA for the campaign instead of getting it approved, which we could do very easily.