Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump at CIA Headquarters|January 21, 2017
Well, I want to thank everybody. Very, very special people. And it is true, this is my first stop, officially. Were not talking about the balls, or were not talking about even the speeches -- although they did treat me nicely on that speech yesterday.  I always call them the dishonest media, but they treated me nicely.
But I want to say that there is nobody that feels stronger about the intelligence community and the CIA than Donald Trump. Theres nobody.
The wall behind me is very, very special. Weve been touring for quite a while, and Ill tell you what -- 29? I cant believe it.
Unidentified Male : Twenty-eight.
Oh, 28. We got to reduce it. Thats amazing. And we really appreciate what youve done in terms of showing us something very special. And your whole group, these are really special, amazing people. Very, very few people could do the job you people do. And I want to just let you know, I am so behind you. And I know maybe sometimes you havent gotten the backing that youve wanted, and youre going to get so much backing. Maybe youre going to say, please dont give us so much backing.  Mr. President, please, we dont need that much backing.  But youre going to have that. And I think everybody in this room knows it.
You know, the military and the law enforcement, generally speaking, but all of it -- but the military gave us tremendous percentages of votes. We were unbelievably successful in the election with getting the vote of the military. And probably almost everybody in this room voted for me, but I will not ask you to raise your hands if you did.  But I would guarantee a big portion, because were all on the same wavelength, folks.  Were all on the same wavelength, right? He knows. It took Brian about 30 seconds to figure that one out, right, because we know were on the same wavelength.
But were going to do great things. Were going to do great things. Weve been fighting these wars for longer than any wars weve ever fought. We have not used the real abilities that we have. Weve been restrained. We have to get rid of ISIS. Have to get rid of ISIS. We have no choice.  Radical Islamic terrorism. And I said it yesterday -- it has to be eradicated just off the face of the Earth. This is evil. This is evil. And you know, I can understand the other side. We can all understand the other side. There can be wars between countries, there can be wars. You can understand what happened. This is something nobody can even understand. This is a level of evil that we havent seen. And youre going to go to it, and youre going to do a phenomenal job. But were going to end it. Its time. Its time right now to end it.
You have somebody coming on who is extraordinary. For the different positions of Secretary of This" and "Secretary of That" and all of these great positions
But we did -- we had such a tremendous, tremendous success. So when Im interviewing all of these candidates that Reince and his whole group is putting in front, it went very, very quickly, and, in this case, went so quickly -- because I would see six or seven or eight for Secretary of Agriculture, who we just named the other day, Sonny Perdue, former governor of Georgia. Fantastic guy. But Id see six, seven, eight people for a certain position. Everybody wanted it.
But I met Mike Pompeo, and it was the only guy I met. I didnt want to meet anybody else. I said, cancel everybody else. Cancel. Now, he was approved, essentially, but theyre doing little political games with me. He was one of the three. Now, last night, as you know, General Mattis, fantastic guy, and General Kelly got approved.  And Mike Pompeo was supposed to be in that group. It was going to be the three of them. Can you imagine all of these guys? People respect -- you know, they respect that military sense. All my political people, theyre not doing so well. The political people arent doing so well but you. Were going to get them all through, but some will take a little bit longer than others.
But Mike was literally -- I had a group of -- what, we had nine different people? Now, I must say, I didnt mind cancelling eight appointments. That wasnt the worst thing in the world. But I met him and I said, he is so good. Number one in his class at West Point.
Now, I know a lot about West Point. Im a person that very strongly believes in academics. In fact, every time I say I had an uncle who was a great professor at MIT for 35 years who did a fantastic job in so many different ways, academically -- was an academic genius -- and then they say, is Donald Trump an intellectual? Trust me, Im like a smart persona.  And I recognized immediately. So he was number one at West Point, and he was also essentially number one at Harvard Law School. And then he decided to go into the military. And he ran for Congress. And everything hes done has been a homerun. People like him, but much more importantly to me, everybody respects him. And when I told Paul Ryan that I wanted to do this, I would say he may be the only person that was not totally thrilled -- right, Mike? Because he said, I dont want to lose this guy.
But you will be getting a total star. Youre going to be getting a total gem. Hes a gem.  Youll see. Youll see. And many of you know him anyway. But youre going to see. And again, we have some great people going in. But this one is something -- is going to be very special, because this is one, if I had to name the most important, this would certainly be perhaps -- you know, in certain ways, you could say my most important. You do the job like everybody in this room is capable of doing. And the generals are wonderful, and the fighting is wonderful. But if you give them the right direction, boy, does the fighting become easier. And, boy, do we lose so fewer lives, and win so quickly. And thats what we have to do. We have to start winning again.
You know, when I was young and when I was -- of course, I feel young. I feel like Im 30, 35, 39.  Somebody said, are you young? I said, I think Im young. You know, I was stopping -- when we were in the final month of that campaign, four stops, five stops, seven stops. Speeches, speeches, in front of 25,000, 30,000 people, 15,000, 19,000 from stop to stop. I feel young.
When I was young -- and I think were all sort of young. When I was young, we were always winning things in this country. Wed win with trade. Wed win with wars. At a certain age, I remember hearing from one of my instructors, The United States has never lost a war." And then
I believe that this group is going to be one of the most important groups in this country toward making us safe, toward making us winners again, toward ending all of the problems. We have so many problems that are interrelated that we dont even think of, but interrelated to the kind of havoc and fear that this sick group of people has caused. So I can only say that I am with you 1,000 percent.
And the reason youre my first stop is that, as you know, I have a running war with the media. They are among the most dishonest human beings on Earth. and  And they sort of made it sound like I had a feud with the intelligence community. And I just want to let you know, the reason youre the number-one stop is exactly the opposite -- exactly. And they understand that, too.
And I was explaining about the numbers. We did a thing yesterday at the speech. Did everybody like the speech?  Ive been given good reviews. But we had a massive field of people. You saw them. Packed. I get up this morning, I turn on one of the networks, and they show an empty field. I say, wait a minute, I made a speech. I looked out, the field was -- it looked like a million, million and a half people. They showed a field where there were practically nobody standing there. And they said, Donald Trump did not draw well. I said, it was almost raining, the rain should have scared them away, but God looked down and he said, were not going to let it rain on your speech.
In fact, when I first started, I said, oh, no. The first line, I got hit by a couple of drops. And I said, oh, this is too bad, but well go right through it. But the truth is that it stopped immediately. It was amazing. And then it became really sunny. And then I walked off and it poured right after I left. It poured. But, you know, we have something thats amazing because we had -- it looked -- honestly, it looked like a million and a half people. Whatever it was, it was. But it went all the way back to the Washington Monument. And I turn on -- and by mistake I get this network, and it showed an empty field. And it said we drew 250,000 people. Now, thats not bad, but its a lie. We had 250,000 people literally around -- you know, in the little bowl that we constructed. That was 250,000 people. The rest of the 20-block area, all the way back to the Washington Monument, was packed. So we caught them, and we caught them in a beauty. And I think theyre going to pay a big price.
We had another one yesterday, which was interesting. In the Oval Office theres a beautiful statue of Dr. Martin Luther King. And I also happen to like Churchill, Winston Churchill. I think most of us like Churchill. He doesnt come from our country, but had a lot to do with it. Helped us; real ally. And, as you know, the Churchill statue was taken out -- the bust. And as you also probably have read, the Prime Minister is coming over to our country very shortly. And they wanted to know whether or not Id like it back. I say, absolutely, but in the meantime we have a bust of Churchill.
So a reporter for Time magazine -- and I have been on there cover, like, 14 or 15 times. I think we have the all-time record in the history of Time Magazine. Like, if Tom Brady is on the cover, its one time, because he won the Super Bowl or something, right?  Ive been on it for 15 times this year. I dont think thats a record, Mike, that can ever be broken. Do you agree with that? What do you think?
But I will say that they said -- it was very interesting -- that Donald Trump took down the bust, the statue, of Dr. Martin Luther King. And it was right there. But there was a cameraman that was in front of it.  So Zeke -- Zeke from Time Magazine writes a story about I took down. I would never do that because I have great respect for Dr. Martin Luther King. But this is how dishonest the media is.
Now, the big story -- the retraction was, like, where? Was it a line? Or do they even bother putting it in? So I only like to say that because I love honesty. I like honest reporting.
I will tell you, final time -- although I will say it, when you let in your thousands of other people that have been trying to come in -- because I am coming back -- were going to have to get you a larger room.  We may have to get you a larger room. You know? And maybe, maybe, it will be built by somebody that knows how to build, and we wont have columns.  You understand that?  We get rid of the columns.
No, I just wanted to really say that I love you, I respect you. Theres nobody I respect more. Youre going to do a fantastic job. And were going to start winning again, and youre going to be leading the charge.
