Donald Trump|Interview: Buck Sexton and John Solomon of Hill.tv Interview Donald Trump|September 18, 2018
I have not reviewed them. I have been asked by many people in Congress as you know to release them. I have watched commentators that I respect begging the president of the United States to release them. Were sitting with one right here, were sitting with two, youre right. More than once. And I have had many people ask me to release them.
Not that I didnt like the idea, but I wanted to wait. I wanted to see what, you know, where it was all going. And I think this whole, its a hoax. You know Gregg Jarrett wrote a book called the Russian Hoax. It actually is a hoax. I call it a witch hunt, but its a hoax. Beyond a witch hunt.
When you see the two lovers and you see their most recent texts come out. It is very, very sad for our country to look at that. When you see him talking about the leaks and then say, No we were trying to stop leaks in the FBI, OK. That didnt work out because the following day others came out. But when you see the one about We have to get this while Andy is still there.
In other words, Comey was a bad guy. He gets fired. They only have Andy left because they know theyre doing wrong. So, we have to get this while, Andys, you know the one Im talking about John.
I thought that was terrible. And maybe I thought. And maybe it didnt pertain to me as much, but the one where he said, Great going Page, the story just hit something to that effect. Youll quote it accurately, you know. But, and the other one I guess, Strzok, said great going. And then he goes, now I can go and essentially investigate them. In other words, hell go up to a door of some person and say, yeah pretext.
And say, hey this story just appeared, whats going on. I mean, number one, how illegal is it. But number two, how low is it?
And hes congratulating her just the way a lover would congratulate another. Way to go Page, you know. The whole thing, and I thought that was disgraceful. I thought it was disgraceful and when you look at it, it all goes back to the insurance policy. One of the earlier ones because they thought she was going to win, but just in case she didnt win, were going to have an insurance policy, and what we have now is an insurance policy.
But its been totally discredited. Even Democrats agree, that its been discredited. They are not going to admit that, but its been totally discredited. And I think frankly more so by text than by documents. I think the texts, not only theirs, many others. So honestly Buck, I have been asked by so many people that I respect, please — the great Lou Dobbs, the great Sean Hannity, the wonderful, great Jeanine Pirro.
No, she takes it so personally. And thats not, lets say they like me. But this is beyond liking me. They know that this is one of the great scandals in the history of our country. Because basically what they did, is they used Carter Page who nobody even knew, who I feel very badly for, I think he has been treated very badly.
They used Carter Page as a foil in order to surveil a candidate for the presidency of the United States.
And if you think about it, Ive been under investigation, even though they say Im not under investigation and Im not a target. You do know Im not a target and Im not under investigation. But, this has been going on from seven months prior to the election. And then you had, the appointment of Mueller, whos highly conflicted.
Highly conflicted.
I dont like to use it because it sounds so conspiratorial and believe it or not Im really not a conspiratorial person. But I think its a sad day for our country.
I think that I hope to be able to put this up as one of my crowning achievements that I was able to do through the help of a lot of good people including you two, and all of the support we have. We have tremendous support by the way, to expose something that is truly a cancer in our country. When you look at the FBI, you know you have eight people or so fired now.
And what weve done is a great service to the country, really. You know, I hope, I hope to be able to call this one of, along with tax cuts and regulations, and all of the things Ive done. You know youve been seeing, you probably saw the news conference I just did.
Were making great trade deals. In its own way, this might be the most important thing because this was corrupt. When you look at Bruce Ohr, whose wife was getting paid by people that did a totally phony deal. And they got a tremendous amount of money, the money.
I mean the millions of dollars. And how about Papadopoulos who I didnt know other than I sat with him for 15 minutes at a table, unfortunately, where they have a picture of this. I never even talked to the guy. I didnt know who he was. And I didnt know, one thing I will say about Carter Page. He never went around saying he knew me. He never went around saying the president is my best friend.
They put him on some committee. Some person put him on some committee. They were both on the same committee.
And that was not a good committee for me, OK.  But they put him on the same committee and that was it. But he never went around talking about the president is my best friend. From day one he said, I never met the president. I didnt know the president, but I was put on his committee. And I say that.
It takes a lot. Because if I dont do it you know bad things can happen. Ill give you one thing and Papadopoulos. I didnt know him at all but once he, once he went public and I watched him, he was treated really badly. The guy with the tape recorder who got paid money.
I mean, he got paid a tremendous amount of money. I didnt know the FBI had the right to pay somebody like that. I mean thats. He got paid more than anybody at the FBI gets paid by a lot. Right?
No, but you understand what they gave him. I mean I heard reports from $500,000 to $2 million.
Well, it looks to me like, just based on your reporting, that theyve been misled. I mean, I dont think we have to go much further than to say that theyve been misled because the dossier is a phony deal and so much of whats been done is just bad stuff.
Um, one of the things Im disappointed in is that the judges in FISA didnt, dont seem to have done anything about it. Im very disappointed in that. Now I may be wrong because as we sit here and talk maybe theyre, you know, maybe theyre well into it and we just dont know that. Because I have purposely have not chosen not to get involved until just — all I want to do is be transparent.
I could have fired everybody. I couldve done many things. Ive chosen not to do that. I dont know if thats wise or not wise, probably, you know, who knows?
Someday youll tell me if that was right  but um, so Im very disappointed, unless they are doing it, that they have not taken very strong action, does that makes sense to you?
Because theyve been abused by reporters. Theyve been, I mean, the FISA court has been laughed at and scorned by whats gone on here.
And then you see 99.99 percent of the things get approved, it was supposed to be just the opposite I remember when they first started talking about the FISA court, youve learned a lot through what Ive, you know, gone through. They were saying how tough it is to get to — then the report comes out like, 99.9 percent of the things that get in front of it, so they knew that and so they put fraudulent stuff in front of it.
Well, I have to see what theyve done, John, they might be working, they might be really deep into it, and I only hope thats the case for the good of the country. Because theyre reading the same articles by you guys and by others. Even the other side knows how wrong this whole thing is. They just cant write it. At some point I really believe they will.
You know theres Pulitzer Prizes here. Big ones. This is, somebody was saying last night, this is the big, oh, Maria Bartiromo, she said it so beautifully, did you see her on Sunday — she said, "This is maybe the greatest scandal in the history of our country."
And the fake news reporters will not pick it up. You can do something thats monument shaking and they just dont want to pick it up and at some point, you would think you would have to and its getting to a point where theyre starting to talk about it.
Can you give me an update because I just left the stage ... has she …
Let me do this before I do that — has she agreed to testify yet?
Its a very big thing, if she doesnt. So, I have said right from the start and people have been very happy with what Ive said that we have to let both sides speak, we have to take a look at his absolutely incredible record, a record like almost none other that Ive seen. You know, between the schools, the intellect.
You know I said yesterday, "not a blemish on his record." And you have to look at what she has to say. So, I dont want to comment on her until I see her.
… The Democrats have had this letter for three months. They could have brought it up at the hearing during, you know, in course during the hearing. Dianne Feinstein knew all about it and if she knew about it that meant Schumer knew about it. And every Democrat knew about it. This is no different than the Russian witch hunt, what theyve done is they make up a lot of stuff and try and obstruct and resist.
Ive always said that the Russia hoax was an excuse for them losing the election. Even though actually, amazingly that started seven months before. That started when it looked like I may have a chance to win, OK? But see that didnt do anything to me because I didnt know about it.
One thing on that again, also, if they thought there was something with Russia, and Im one of two people that are gonna be the president of the United States, they should have come to me and said, "Sir, youre dealing with people that may have something to do with Russia. We want to let you know." And Id say, "Im sorry whoever it may be, you gotta go, sorry."
They never did it, no, they never did it. No, but wouldnt you think theyd say hey, you know theres two people that have a chance.
They, they should have come to me and said "Hey, you know we have an obligation," like they did with Dianne Feinstein with her driver. You have somebody that is possibly a Chinese spy, now she had the guy for 20 years. But they notify her, they dont investigate her. They notify her, and she immediately fires the guy.
They certainly did it with Hillary Clinton. I mean what, that, thats the other thing that people are so upset about.
Its not only that its fraudulent what they did, its not only that you have the 17 angry Democrats, I mean look at these people. Look where they come from. Weissman, he was at Hillary Clintons thing going crazy, OK? I call it the funeral. You know, it started off as the party and ended up being the funeral.
Going crazy. How can he possibly be allowed to do this? And how can you pick every single prosecutor as a Democrat? You would think even if you did have bad intentions, which he does, you would say let me get half and half, its actually more effective.
OK and as you know he has — Comey is his best friend. I had a very, very nasty business transaction with Bob Mueller, very nasty. Youve heard about that, maybe. To me, thats — plus he wanted to be head of the FBI. And I didnt do that and the following day hes appointed special counsel. Those are three, unbelievable.
So, we have a nasty, business transaction. Ill tell you what, if Im in business and I have a nasty business transaction with somebody, a hostile business transaction, and then I become a judge and 10 years later I meet that guy in court, I would try and be neutral but probably youre not able to be. He should be, hes conflicted, out.
Bob Mueller is totally conflicted.
Yes, its accurate. If I did one mistake with Comey I should have fired him before I got here. I should have fired him the day I won the primaries. I should have fired him right after the convention. Say, I dont want that guy. Or at least fired him the first day on the job. If I did one mistake it was, you know, I, I really did fire him, you know I fired him a couple of months in, so its not like.
But I would have been better off firing him or putting out a statement that I dont him there when I get there."
This is on the record. Funny thing about Comey is that everybody hated Comey. The Democrats hated him far more than the Republicans until I announced that I was going to fire him. You go back — or that I did fire him. You go back and look at those statements. Podesta, I think, the day before said Comey should be fired.
Schumer was just brutal. To show you how horrible and political it is, in fact naively, when I fired him, I said, Finally Im going to do something in a bipartisan way. I thought I would be popular for the Democrats. I actually thought that firing James Comey, they hated him more than anybody. And so did the Republicans, because the Republicans viewed him as letting her get away with murder.
They viewed him a different way, but the Democrats hated him even more than the Republicans. Until I fired him. And then they made a decision, and all together, I guarantee you Schumer called them all fast and say We love Comey.
But honestly when I did it, I didnt do it for this reason, but when I did it, I really said this is one thats gonna be really popular also with the Democrats. And you know what? Theyre a bunch of phony obstructers and they all changed. The problem, the one thing they cant do is get rid of all their statements they made the day before, meaning in the days before.
Because they went for a long period of time just, the hatred for Comey was probably as great or greater than almost anybody by the Democrats, and now they act like hes a saint. Although now theyre not acting that way.
Im so sad over Jeff Sessions because he came to me. He was the first senator that endorsed me. And he wanted to be attorney general, and I didnt see it. But he came very strongly he really wanted to be. And, I let him be.
And then he went through the nominating process and he did very poorly. I mean, he was mixed up and confused, and people that worked with him for, you know, a long time in the Senate were not nice to him, but he was giving very confusing answers. Answers that should have been easily answered. And that was a rough time for him, and he won by one vote, I believe.
You know he won by just one vote.
He won by one vote, and its so sad what happened. Then he gets in and probably because of the experience that he had going through the nominating when somebody asked him the first question about Hillary Clinton or something he said I recuse myself, I recuse myself. And now it turned out he didnt have to recuse himself.
Actually, the FBI reported shortly thereafter any reason for him to recuse himself. And its very sad what happened. In the meantime, I dont have an attorney general. Its very sad. Im not happy at the border, Im not happy with numerous things, not just this.
OK, well, let me just finish this. Well see what happens, I mean, well see what happens. A lot of people have asked me to do that. And I guess I study history, and I say I just want to leave things alone, but it was very unfair what he did. And my worst enemies, I mean, people that, you know, are on the other side of me, in a lot of ways including politically, have said that was a very unfair thing he did.
You know, youve seen that, when he recused himself. So anyway, so, so well see how it goes with Jeff. Im very disappointed in Jeff. Very disappointed.
So, we have started the wall. We got 1.6. We got another 1.6. Weve fixed a lot of existing, weve started an 80-mile stretch. The entire Democrat life is to try and make sure we dont have a wall, not because we dont need it because we do. But because that was a promise that I made, and they want to try to make sure I dont deliver on that promise.
And we have a majority of one in the Senate because we have the filibuster rule, which we shouldnt, um, you cant get 10 votes. In other words, Buck, we got a majority of one. We got to get to 60. So, 10 Democrats are controlling the Senate. We shouldnt have the filibuster rule. The first thing that Chuck Schumer would do if he ever took control of the Senate is get rid of the filibuster rule.
And for whatever reason and nobody can explain it, they just wont do it. Which means we need to get nine more, Republicans. So, its very tough thing, even though we need it.
But Ill be doing things over the next two weeks having to do with immigration, which I think youll be very impressed at. So, we are building the wall, I could build it — you know what I do best is build — I could build the whole thing in a year, but um, there was a picture that was sort of great. I wish I had it. I had a picture of where I was this weekend.
They built this gorgeous wall where the plane went down in Pennsylvania. Shanksville. And I was there. I made the speech. And its sort of beautiful, what they did is incredible. They have a series of walls, Im saying, "Its like perfect." So, so we are pushing very hard. As you know weve gotten approved in the House but the Senate cannot get it approved.
There are many things the Senate cant approve, you know, including Kates law, including I could name many things. The problem is that with the filibuster rule they have to, they need 10 more Republicans elected. And Im very opposed to that, but thats the way it is.
I think this — we probably have the greatest economy in history, so theyve tried many narratives with me. You know, I took that test when I got my last physical, and the doctor said thats one of the highest scores weve ever seen. I did that not because I wanted but I did it, I was always good at testing.
But if theres anything great about me its stability, and Im a good manager. Always been a good manager, but you know, I have a vision. And I had just beaten 17 — because it was actually 18, including Gilmore, just so you know. People say 17 but it was actually 18, you know he was the governor of Virginia, so it was 18. And I had just beaten 17 people including the Bush dynasty.
I then beat the Hillary Clinton dynasty. You cans give me credit for Bernie Sanders and all because I was part of it, but you know. So I beat the Bush dynasty, the Clinton dynasty, 17 people, and I never left center stage once, you can check. I never left center stage meaning I had lead in republican primaries from day one.
And I had, and I went through 14-12 debates, 12-debates before Hillary. And I never left center stage, and then they make up a thing, well, maybe hes losing it, maybe. No, I, I would know that so fast.
By the way, when you start asking me questions maybe someday, and I say, Hmm I dont know those answers, I may say, Well, its time to hang it up, OK? But the opposite, and I will say that the narrative, the different narratives, theyve tried all different narratives. Theyve tried that, they tried, hes a dictator, hes a fascist. One of them did, one of them did, hes losing it, and the next week they went into, Hes the most brilliant mind.
Hes taking over the country. Hes a fascist, hes a dictator, and hes gonna make the eight years into life. OK.
I said wait a minute, last week, I was incompetent and now, Im, you know, taking over the world. OK? Its incredible. Its sick. But, the various narratives that they do are just so bad, theyre just so bad for the country. Its just really so bad. And theyre such opposites in a sense. Like, if you take insurance they want single payer, which cant be afforded, and we want really great health care where people get a great price.
You know, really great stuff where people get a great price. I mean there are such differences, I could go on, on almost every subject. So, its hard to bring everyone together unless theres a, maybe very large national problem, which we dont want. Maybe that brings people together, like it did for about a day with the World Trade Center, you know.
And by the way the worst single mistake ever made in the history of our country — going into the Middle East by President Bush. Obama may have gotten em out wrong, but going in is to me the biggest single mistake made in the history of our country. Because we spent $7 trillion in the Middle East. Now if you wanna fix a window some place they say, "oh jee, lets not do it. $7 trillion and millions of lives — you know, cause I like to count both sides.
Millions of lives.
To me is the worst single mistake made in the history of our country. Civil war you can understand. Civil war, civil war. Thats different. For us to have gone into the Middle East, and that was just, that was a bad day for this country, I will tell you.
By the way, to finish that, I think were going to do much better than anyone thinks because the economy is so good, and people do like the job Im doing. You know, they like the job, and to finish it off with just a little extra, when people say, you know, theres a lot of action going on, Im going through an illegal witch hunt.
If I didnt have that, you asked me a very good question before, do you spend much time on it? You have to spend time on it. Im not supposed to be spending time on it. You know, part of this whole thing is that Im not supposed to be spending any time on it. But I am.
Despite that, I think Ive done more than any president in history. If you look at the things we have done, with the tax cuts, and all of the things that weve done, including hopefully now two Supreme Court justices, well have more judges put on than any other president other than one. Do you know who the one is? George Washington.
Percentage-wise. Ill have more than him, too, but percentage-wise .
I said that the other, you know I have 145 judges, plus hopefully two Supreme Court judges. And thats assuming nobody leaves the bench which they will over the next period of time. Itll be number one. I outta say, "Who has highest percentage of federal judges." They say, "you do." Ill say "no, no. I got killed." They said "who? George Washington because he appointed a hundred percent of the judges."
So, Buck, I have, in addition to what Im doing, I have this thing which I wanna run. I wanna manage, but this was used as an excuse, even though it actually started long before I won. You know, and we only found that out through the texts. This was a hoax before. But the Democrats used this as an excuse for having lost the election, when the Electoral College is totally their way.
I mean, I had to run the entire East Coast, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, Pennsylvania. I had to win places that havent been won in years. I won Wisconsin. I won Michigan. I had to run states that nobody thought were possible to do, except me, and some people and some pollsters, and some good pollsters.
Rasmussen was very good I have to tell you. So, you know, were really happy with the job. And just in finishing I was just gonna say that, so they like to say, chaos in the White House. Youre here. Its running so beautifully. And expect for the one area that you asked me about before, Mike Pompeo is a star, everyone of my Cabinet members is doing great.
