Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Addresses a Rally in Abingdon, VA|August 10, 2016
Well, thank you very much. And hes not 68-years-old, hes actually 95, right? But hes been mining for 68 years safely. Its fantastic.  I thought he looked pretty good at 68. He looks really good at 95, Ill tell you that.
So I want to thank everybody. Its fantastic to be here. Weve had a tremendous response from the miners.
And you look at West Virginia, what happened there during the primaries. It was a massive landslide for Trump. And it was very interesting because after winning New York, here we are standing on 5th Avenue and I said -- and the all just incredible street of New York. And for some reason, and it had nothing to do with West Virginia, I just said it because I was seeing what was happening with this industry.
And I said in this, you know, really such a different location, that we are going to put the miners back to work. And I said that during my speech. And...  And by the way -- and I meant it.
And then a number of weeks later, I went to West Virginia and we had a big, huge building, actually. And it was packed and there were thousands and thousands of people -- tends of thousands of people outside. And youve never seen so many people. It was like love, like absolute love the way they showed up, the miners.
And you know, we did so well there, it was something I wont forget. I mean, it was really incredible. And I pulled over some of the folks because afterwards, I was talking to some of the people and some of the mine owners who have been really decimated and really, in many cases, destroyed by regulation and by what theyre doing to the mines. And you look at all the mines that have been closed up.
But I brought over some of the miners and we were talking after the speech, and I said, Could I ask you like would you ever think of maybe leaving and going into a different industry I so understood that. It was so incredible. And they all said it like at the same time. They want to be miners, but their jobs have been taken away and were going to bring them back, folks.
Were going to bring them back.  The -- the U.S. -- I just took a look at this. Somebody just handed -- the U.S.
has lost nearly 200,000 mining jobs since 2014 -- 2014, and thats not a long period of time; 200,000 jobs. The senator brought up a fact and a couple of the folks brought this up, and its a fact that nobodys heard. But during times of national problems. Were talking about the defense of our country.
Having those minds and having that potential energy source available to us is an awfully important thing. Its an awfully important thing. And nobody thinks in terms of that, they dont think in terms of that.  And I fully -- and I fully understand that.
But its been an honor. We just met with some of the folks. Were really representative, I would say. Senator, I would say representatives from every aspect of the business, right? And it was amazing.
It was really amazing. These are great people, theyre great Americans. They love this country. And if I get in -- if I get in, I mean you know, its -- its -- if I get in this is what it is, OK?  And -- and other forms of energy, all forms of energy.
But what theyve done to the minors is incredible and the Obama Administration. And you remember and I think you mightve just seen it.  Yes, know what theyve done and nobody knows, you know clean call, nobody knows. While you look at whats happening with China, the amount of energy theyre producing and what theyre using coal for, tremendous amounts of -- just tremendous.
Its like incredible. Theyre not cleaning it. Believe me, theyre not cleaning it. We have a small, a very, very small planet compared to the universe, right? And that stuff is going up and theyre not cleaning it.
And here we produce great stuff and were not allowed to use it. And its getting worse and worse. So theyre gonna be out of business soon. Hillary Clinton will be worse than Obama.
You know it, shell be worse.  Dont forget, when she made the statement, gonna put the minds and essentially gonna put the minds and minors out of business, gonna put them out of business. And I guess she forgot about West Virginia, right? She was -- she was going to West Virginia. She forgot about Virginia too, in all fairness, you know.  You know, she had -- she had West Virginia right after -- a short time after that. And you remember when she went into West Virginia she met with that wonderful family and the man -- the miner for many years?
And he was trying to explain to her and she was trying to say well, you know I really wanna keep -- she didnt know, she was groveling. She was groveling, she didnt know what to say. I dont think he was going to be easily convinced, do we agree? Because she said it just like she said and you know she said it was a mistake that shes going to raise taxes in the middle class, you saw that one? Now, maybe she misspoke.
I mean we have to give them a break. But it did come out awfully loud and clear, I -- I dont know. Hey look, hopefully it wont matter, OK? Hopefully its not gonna matter because shes not gonna get  .  But what I told -- what I told the folks before, we were over at Peterbilt the plant, incredible.
But what I told -- what I told the folks before is -- is that you have to get our and vote. Because the minors to a certain extent they are so down and theyve been treated so badly that they havent been voting. They havent been going out and voting like they can. And that includes members of their family that have left the mining business, let members of the family -- theyve left coal.
Theyve left everything. And theyve gotten into something else and thats fine, thats great. But they live in Virginia and they vote. And their parents are still in the coal world where they wanna be and thats where they wanna be.
But everybody has to get out and vote. If you get out and vote, were pretty close in Virginia and shes spending a fortune in ads. A friend of mine said he cant see television without seeing anti-Trump ads. And theyre not even true.
My friend actually said theyre not true. I said, I know." I could go over those ads one by one and show you the - its fraudulent And its just one after another, after another. And this guy kiddingly said, I just want to see one Ivory soap ad. One." Just to break it.
And its just one after another And we havent spent anything yet. We will be, because were doing well. But we havent spent anything yet; were holding it. But its really - its really a shame that they can say whatever they want to say.
They try and demean and defame. And then you look at what shes doing with her e-mails. 33,000 missing e-mails. Yeah, 33,000. Its - its very sad. And then I guess yesterday, 1,000 came out or something - some fairly vast number. Oh, I want to see the ones - the - what I really would like to see the - we have to see the 33,000. Can you imagine? Remember, she said I think it was for her wedding - the wedding of Chelsea.
And it was for yoga classes. 33,000 e-mails. Its a lot of yoga - its a lot of yoga. But a couple of very bad ones came out. And it - its called pay for play. And some of these were really, really bad and illegal. But its true, its illegal. Youre paying and youre getting things.
I mean I watched yesterday, because of the Apprentice, Blagojevich, right, Governor Blagojevich - 14 years in jail. And you know some people think OK, some people think its crazy. Look at what shes done - nothing. Shes running for president.
But it came out to her people, pay for play. And very big stories today. The problem is, itll be big stories for about two minutes, and then theyre going to drop it because the media is so totally dishonest - so totally...  If that were me - if that were me, the story that just came out this morning - and really, hidden from some of the major newspapers - hidden.
If that were me, that would be biggest story in the history of the various papers. They go quadruple spacing, bomb Trump. But with her, its - its just - I mean it - its - I mean some of them covered it - big league. But some of them are just refusing to really report the facts.
And I think its gonna get worse and worse though because I assume more stuff will come out. But this was big stuff. Pay for play - its illegal. I mean its illegal.
And well see what happens with it, folks. Well see what happens with it. But its very serious stuff. Its very, very serious. I dont know that it can be any more serious than deleting or getting rid of 33,000 e-mails, and all of the other things - the server - the server, which not allowed to have. The information gotten off that servers by who knows who, probably many people - many countries, potentially. Secretary of State to put us all in that position. So I think its a very sad thing.
And they give her a pass on everything. Give her a pass. Its so sad when I watch that. And it was point, after point, after point. And everybody was saying wow, theyre really going to do it. And then they go, however - as soon as I heard - you know, when you hear the word however. And is was. But its just -- its just so incredible that a thing like that could happen.
So lets see what happens. Lets see what happens. In the meantime, were doing very well. You saw the polls over the last day or two have really tightened up a lot.
I think were going to have a great victory. I really feel it.  One of -- one of the things I suggested is your ballots. You go and sign -- do it early so you dont have to -- because on November 8th, we have our big day.
And if you go in an sign, we have some people in the room now that Ive met before that are going to be pushing hard. But put in your ballots. They have certain requirements and you live by those requirements perfectly. Make sure they dont lose your ballot.
Make sure they dont lose your vote, which Im sure -- you know, and I just left a great place, North Carolina. And they just had a tremendous loss -- voter ID, voter ID. They lost voter ID. How do you lose voter ID? You mean, you dont have to show identification? You dont have to show that, hey? And then you say -- you know, Ive been talking about the rigged system for a long time.
And I get hammered in the press for talking about it. Oh, I cant believe hed be talking about the rigged system. And then in the meantime, voter ID, you dont have to do. And Im sure none of those folks would be voting 10 times during one day, right? Im sure a thing like that...  But I get -- and really, a big part of the rigged system is the press itself because they can take a little story, that isnt a story, and make it into a big deal. It happens so much, happens so much. And speaking of that, remember this. We have so many things that we have to protect in this country.
We have to protect our Second Amendment, which is under siege.  Remember that. Remember that. Its under siege.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have to -- you know, I see -- and by the way, we have a lot of unity in the Republican Party, but nobody talks about it.
If one senator says were not voting for Trump, never Trump, some people were beaten so badly that they, you know, they just cant get it. And I understand that. I mean, I can see that could happen. So, you know, theyve won throughout their lives politically, and then they lose an election by a lot to a guy that never ran before.
OK? I never ran before. Never thought Id be doing it this time, either, but I watch whats going on and I say, its time.  Its time. Boy is it time, right?  You know, I look at the Iran deal.
How about the $400 million in cash? How about that? How about that? The $400 million -- do you know what that is? Does anybody know what that would even look like -- 400? And did you see Iran actually finally did do what I thought they were going to do. They released pictures, because they want to embarrass the United States, just like they took the 10 sailors and they made us look so bad. They made us look so bad. It was like a humiliation of our country.
OK? This is horrible. And then we keep going and going. And you saw what their so-called leader -- somebody would say the supreme leader. I refuse to use that term.
President Obama would say the supreme leader. What is going on, folks? What is going on with our leaders? And with our leader, in particular? He is grossly incompetent. OK? Grossly incompetent.  So -- so their $400 million in cash going, it happens to be the same day as the hostages were released.
The hostages were in the airport for massive amounts of time. And I guess one of them said they wouldnt let us go because they were waiting for a certain plane to come in. And I just cant imagine what was on that plane, right? We cant imagine. Im sure it had nothing to do with the $400 million.
But isnt that unbelievable? And then hell stand up and hell say that one thing had nothing to do with the other. And then practically I guess you could say theres a one or two percent chance that you know, what he said is right. But thats about it. They would practically -- theyre saying -- theyre waiting for something else and a plane to come in, right? And they were at the airport forever.
And they say and President Obama said no, this had nothing to do with the hostages. And you know if you remember with Obamacare, he said you can keep your plane, you can keep your doctor. You have your doctor, you have your plan -- how many times he said it, 28 times or something? And many Democrats approve that disaster, its a disaster. Were gonna repeal it and replace it  .  But many, many Democrats -- many, many Democrats would not have -- you know, won by almost nothing, the margin was almost nothing. And a lot of Democrats approved it, they didnt want to approve it. But you know, with the doctor and the plan and over and over again a lot of pressure put on. And its out of control.
Premiums are going up at a rate that nobody has ever seen before. You know, in Texas through Blue Cross Blue Shield they just had almost a 50 percent increase. And they -- the big increase is now going to come on November 1st. And theyre trying to delay it till after the election because it is catastrophic.
It is going to be an increase like never before. Im hearing numbers that I dont even wanna say because the press will say oh, thats terrible, he exaggerated. Theres not gonna be an exaggeration. Its going to be election changing.
And we cant let those numbers be released on another date sometime after the election. Because it will show what a total disaster Obamacare is, so important. So I just say to all of the politicians in the room and your great congressman who is a terrific guy -- where is he by the way  ? Oh, congressman stand up. Stand up.  Vote for him, hes out guy.  Stand up Senator, come on Senator.  Now, we have -- we have great people, here. So right now theyre swimming uphill but with Trump well be just sliding beautifully down.
Itll be a whole different deal. Itll be a whole different deal. And it can happen quickly. It can happen -- we discussed that, we had a big meeting and we discussed it.
Its gonna happen very quickly it doesnt need to go through Congress and doesnt need to go through lots of different things. EPA is very important what theyve done and we want -- everybody agrees? We want clean air and we want clean water, do we agree? I want.  So I very much appreciate the meeting, it was a great meeting. I just wanna say that Virginia has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA.
Now, NAFTA was signed by Bill Clinton. NAFTA is a disaster. Its been a disaster not only for Virginia but for virtually every state. Upstate New York, it looks like a war zone.
Thats why I won so much and I go the upstate vote in numbers that nobodys seen before. Upstate New York, you go to New England, you see the factories, these beautiful old factories that you see they were once thriving. Thousands and thousands of people working and those people now are doing part time jobs. Theyre working two jobs, theyre making less money than they made 18 years ago.
I dont know if you saw that statistic where people, and people in this room too, but where people are making less money now in real wages than they made 18 years ago and even longer. And theyve gotten older, gotten older, and theyre working harder, not supposed to be that. Its supposed -- hey, of course Ive gotten older and Im working harder too to be honest with you.  I didnt need this.
I could have enjoyed myself a lot.  Oh, getting older, were working -- its supposed to be the other way, right? Were getting older and starting to relax. No, its not work, I dont know, I dont know that like that -- I love what Im doing. I have been all over this country.
We have the greatest people. Anywhere in the world, the greatest people.  And I have the greatest supporters. We have the most loyal supporters and the smartest.
You know they always like demean everything, they try to demean supporters, theyre always trying to put a little knock, you know little shots, boom, boom, boom. Weve got the smartest, weve got the most loyal, weve got the hardest working, we have the best people. They like to demean.  But we have amazing, just amazing people and Ive seen this all over the country and we can start making Apple computers in our country, OK folks?
We can start building, we can start building.  You know we go to China, and youd think even the shipping costs, when you just think of it, the shipping costs, I mean how much of a difference, we can -- and you bid it all to different states and youll get the good deal from somebody, just keep it in our country. When they close plants and they move to Mexico and then a company builds in Mexico, whatever product theyre making and then they think theyre going to sell the product back into the United States. All of their people have been fired, every single one of them have been fired. And theyre now using people from another nation to make the same product.
And you know what, they think theyre going to sell it across our border, which by the way will become a very powerful, very strong border, OK its no long going to be a piece of Swiss cheese.  And they think theyre going to sell it across the border. No tax, no nothing, sell it to wherever it came from. Let the people that got laid off buy it and now maybe theyre unemployed, maybe theyre two jobs, and theyre making less, right, as we said.
And, not going to happen folks. And Ive watched for years as our government, which is I guess you could say stupid, but honestly not so stupid. Theyre controlled by special interests. When you see companies moving over to Mexico, and other places...  Theyre controlled by special interests. Theyre controlled by lobbyists, theyre controlled their donors who have big chunks of companies or own the whole company. Because these arent stupid people, our politicians. Some are but we have a genius right over here, thats all I care.
Some are, but a lot of them are just controlled because thats the way the system works. So you think that, you know, like a friend of mine asked me a few weeks, how did a deal like this get approved? Its impossible. Unless -- you know theres no way, theres a certain deal that happened with the government. And he said how is it possible? And hes a little naive and I said well its possible because that company has total control over the politicians that have to approve.
Now, I spent like over $50 million, substantially over 50 million in the primaries, my own money. I spent a lot of money now in the general election and Im spending a lot of money for myself. Were also raising a lot of money. Were also getting a lot of money.
Dont worry. You dont have to give. Dont give. Were going to straighten this place out.
OK? Were going to straighten this place out. But, you know, we have a lot of small donors -- $61, I think, average. We raised millions of dollars. In June, we raised actually $51 million, of which like $27 million was small donors -- $27 million.  And last month, we raised $82 million, of which much of it was small -- I love the small donations -- to me, the best. And so Im spending a lot of money from myself. Im raising a lot of money for the Republican Party. But the beautiful thing is the people that are giving those small dollar donations -- $61 average -- because those people are invested in the campaign.
They want to see -- they get out and vote 100 percent. They get out there and they vote, and its so important. And a Republican generally doesnt have that. You know who had it? Bernie Sanders had it.
He raised a lot of money with that. And we have a different side of the ledger, but we have the same thing. I mean, we have a tremendous amount. People are shocked.
In fact, newspapers that truly hate me put it on the front page. They couldnt believe that. They actually were very nice about it. Because, you know, the month before, we raised nothing.
I wanted to make sure I got the nomination, if you dont mind. OK. You know. I wasnt going to go wild.
But once we started, we started in June. And in June, I think we did $51 million and then we did $82 million, and now we have very good numbers coming in again. So were -- were equipped. We have to get the people out.
We have to get them out to vote. But were equipped. Were going to do a job for you folks and youre going to be really happy in Virginia. OK?  And Im not only talking, by the way, Im not only talking about the miners.
Im talking about the whole state. Because look, Virginia has lost one in three manufacturing jobs, right, since NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton. A disaster. Didnt hurt him.
It hurt every other president. Thats where the country emptied out. Without an agreement, even aside the existing U.S. trade deficit, with TPP.
TPP -- its a disaster. Trans-Pacific Partnership is a disaster. It will be as bad, if thats possible. I think NAFTA is the worst economic development deal ever signed by any country, anywhere in the world.
Thats how bad it is.  And you know, I said, and its part of my platform. I made a speech the other day, some of you saw it. I said were going to renegotiate NAFTA.
And they said, well supposedly, they dont renegotiate. I said thats OK, then were going out. Were out of it. Because its sucking our jobs out of the country.
I tell this story because its such a perfect story. I could go out and hire a consulting firm, pay them a million dollars, and theyll spend months, you know, telling me whats going on with here and Mexico and the different places. Right? But I have much better. I have a friend who builds plants.
I say, how are you doing? He said unbelievable. I said, great, its going well inn the United States? Hes a U.S. guy. He loves this country.
He said, no, Donald, its going unbelievable in Mexico. He said were building some of the greatest plants in the world. He said -- he called it the eighth wonder of the world. He said Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world.
I said, how about here? He said, not so good, not so good. Can you believe this? Hes an American guys. He wants to build here. But just through years and years -- I think hes the biggest in the world with plants, or just one of them.
But he builds plants. And hes really -- he cant believe whats going on in Mexico. Now, thats better than hiring the consulting firm and saying, tell me how were doing against Mexico. I mean, I know the answer, because he can give me the answer better than any guy that graduated from the Wharton School of Finance that youre paying a lot of money, and hell go around and do surveys, right? Its common sense.
And it costs me nothing. Right? But thats whats happening. Thats whats happening. So not only is it the miners, its -- you know, you look at manufacturing jobs are gone.
But NAFTAs one of the worst deals ever signed by our country, certainly the worst in terms of economic development, what its done to us. The destruction of manufacturing in Virginia was caused by Bill Clintons signing of NAFTA. And then shell come along. And she had a very interesting thing because two days ago in The Washington Post -- I was shocked.
In fact, I had to read the story twice to believe it. They did a story on -- a big story. She was a senator form New York and she made tremendous -- you know, tremendous promises of what she was going to do for New York when she became senator. And she won the race and she was a disaster.
We lost jobs, tremendous numbers of jobs. She said shes going to help rebuild upstate New York and all these places where all these jobs were taken because of NAFTA and bills that her husband signed. The whole thing. But she said she was going to do a great job and it was a disaster.
She was going to create I think it was 200,000 jobs, 200,000 jobs. It was negative. It went to hell. Its all talk.
Its all talk.  And now, shes doing the same thing. Shes going to make a job speech or something tomorrow, a speech on the economy. Look at what she did during her term as senator.
Take a look at what happened during her first term. Take a look at what happened. Take a look at the results. What she said -- of all newspapers, it was the Washington Post that did it.
It was like the most devastating article. In fact, I think Im going to use it on my stump speech because you cant -- it just doesnt get any worse. She promised the world and it went -- went like this. It went down.
And she got virtually no legislation passed. She couldnt get anything passed. It was unbelievable. At the same time, or similar time a little while ago, they had an article about Donald Trump and what I did for New York and Manhattan and the buildings and the revitalization and all of that.
I mean, they gave me a lot of credit for getting it all started and doing great jobs. And I dont want to brag about it, but Im contrasting that...  And thats what we have to do for our country. We have to renegotiate our trade deals.
We have to bring trade back. We have to bring jobs back to this country. We have to bring jobs back to our country. Were losing our jobs.
I mean, frankly...  Frankly, any form of energy -- and were losing our factories and were losing our jobs and were losing millions of jobs and were losing thousands and thousands of companies. And theyre leaving and theyre going to other places. I mean, in particular, in terms of manufacturing, theyre going into Mexico.
Look at whats happening with Michigan, where Ford and others are building these massive car plants in Mexico. Folks, theyre going to build cars and under Clinton, theyre going to just build them there and let them come roaring in and all those jobs -- thousands of jobs. Over 100,000 jobs gone in Michigan -- car jobs. All car jobs.
And -- and Im going in front of Michigan. I think we have a good chance of winning Michigan, I think, because Ive been talking about this for years.  And Hillary wouldnt know what to do. So I just ask people when she makes her speech tomorrow or whenever shes doing it, shell stand at the teleprompter, shell spin around a couple of times.
Always a very short speech. Then she gets off the stage, she goes back home, she goes to sleep. When shes -- when she makes her speech tomorrow -- very limited time. Did you ever notice? Very limited. Everythings very limited.
No -- no effort, no time. Great effort, but doesnt spend any time. Shell make a speech and youll see her a little while later. I mean, take a look during the primaries.
Take a look at the whole thing. When she goes out and she makes her speech on economic development or on trade or on the economy or whatever shes going to be talking about refer yourself to yesterday. Take a look at the Washington Post. Take a look at the promises she made as a senator from New York and the jobs she was going to create.
Take a look at what happened. It is a wasteland, whats happened up there. Our jobs got sucked away from us. Our factories are falling down, just from the rain and the wind, the ice, the snow.
Theyre falling down. These plants are falling down. And you could envision 30, 40 years ago, 25 years ago, vibrancy. And now take a look.
But you have to read this story. And I think the biggest shock -- if I read the story anywhere else, because I know the story. I mean, I now she did nothing. She had three minor bills passed.
One was the naming of a building, and very little stuff. She did nothing. But if this were in any other paper, it probably wouldnt have made such a big impact. But this in the Washington Post, one of the most dishonest papers in the world in terms of me, what they say.  You know  . The New York Times actually did a story, and this is sort of amazing. They actually said in way that theyre biased toward me. They actually said it.
They said we hate him so much. Essentially, they say we hate him so much, were going to be biased. And most people have never seen a story like that. Even I was surprised.
You know, normally youd think they wouldnt want to admit it. They practically admitted it, but you look at it. But look at the Washington Post from two days ago. Look at the story on Hillary Clinton.
Compare that with what she says tomorrow. Were never going to let her escape it. Because everything she says is all talk, no action. Its all talk.
Its no action.  And the funny thing is that she put in a pretty unpopular guy, right? A pretty unpopular guy. So you have Bernie Sanders, who had big -- almost 50 percent of the vote and the whole thing was rigged -- the super delegates and everything else. But regardless, but he did a good job.
The nice thing about Bernies people is that they agree with me on one thing -- trade. Because he was so against what was going -- these bad trade deals. He just bought a $600,000 house, so he knows something about whats going on. You know, hes got some sense, right? But -- but about trade, were in agreement.
Now, the difference is I can do something about it. He would not be able to. Hed end it. I want to have trade with other countries, but I want to make great deals for our country.
I want to make great deals for our country.  But she -- she took a person -- did you see how angry he was at the convention? He was so angry because he made a deal. And he made a deal that he wished, in my opinion, he wished he didnt make. Because his legacy would have been amazing if he didnt make a deal.
It would have been a lot different. And on top of everything else, instead of appointing someone that is a little bit like, at least representative of that big faction of the party -- 45 percent. Instead of doing that, she appoints Tim Kaine. OK? Tim Kaine.  You cant get more different. During Tim Kaines tenure as governor of Virginia, from 2006 -- and you all remember, right? -- it was a disaster -- to 2010, the unemployment rate of Virginia more than doubled. Other than that, hes doing great.  Now, compare that with Mike Pence of Indiana.
He did incredible. Hes also incredible.  Hes doing great. And the states going great -- AAA bond rating -- doing great.
And Ill tell you what, Mike Pence really has been fantastic. During Tim Kaines tenure as governor, the state of Virginia lost 60,000 manufacturing jobs. During Tim Kaines tenure as governor of Virginia, it averaged only 1.1 percent in real GDP growth. Less than a week after Tim Kaine became governor of Virginia, he proposed a nearly $4 billion tax increase, including a tax increase on people earning as little as $17,000 a year.
So everybody felt the brunt. And I could go on and on. Its -- I could just go on and on talking about his transportation disasters, everything else. And I watched him the other day and he was saying -- you know, hes won elections, but theyve always been very close.
He said, Every election I win is very close." Thats not a good thing And then I said let me check. And I called up some friends and I -- you know, when they first picked him, I said, Oh by And -- and what happened is -- so during -- during this period of time, Im saying -- call up a friend, a friend calls me, three of four people call me. I have a lot of property in Virginia. You know, in Charlottesville, we have the property on the Potomac River -- Potomac Falls, Sterling, Loudon County.
We love Loudon County. We have a lot of stuff. We employ a lot of people in Virginia. Its a great place.
Great -- I dont know if you know my Charlottesville place, but its a fantastic place. Its now a winery. Its one of the largest wineries on the east coast. We have a lot of employees there.
Theyre going great  Virginia wine, which has become a very big thing. And...  So I have a big -- I have a big stake in Virginia. We have a lot of -- a lot of different property in Virginia.
These two places are incredible. Theyre incredible places. But I figured she was going to pick somebody that was unbelievable. So I heard she picked somebody from Virginia, an ex- governor.
I said, Oh man He had negative growth. I mean, think of it. He raised your taxes by $4 billion. It was like a catastrophic governorship.
And I dont get it. I dont get it. And everybody said to me, yeah, he wasnt very popular. And then I heard him talking how hes won races and every time, he prides himself on having just won.
So I actually think hes going to be a negative in Virginia, not a positive. I really do.  I really do. But you know what? I wish him luck.
I wish him luck. Whatever, whatever. But look, heres the story, folks. We have an election which is I think going to be the most -- and I know they say this -- everybody says it every four years.
I thought it actually four years ago. But this is going to be -- I think its our last shot. I know this. It is the last shot for the miners.
It is the last for the miners. That I know. That I know.  And Im not like a neutral for the miners.
Im not like, Oh That was -- it wasnt sitting down talking to the guy whos such a good guy. Ive seen him on other programs and really a good representative in so many ways. But thats -- thats the real Hillary and thats what shes going to do. And shell probably come in and shell probably come down and see you.
And shell say oh well, I actually think -- shes -- believe me, folks. Thats where she is. I hope you understand that these politicians can say anything they want and get away with it. Its really disgusting, OK? Its really disgusting.  So were going to open up, were going to do such a good job. And you know, I understand, you know, I grew up -- my father was a real estate -- I grew up with the carpenters, I grew up with the sheetrockers, I grew up with the plumbers and the policemen and the firemen and the whole thing. Thats what I grew up with.  People say gee whiz, youre a rich guy but you get along very well with a lot of carpenters and a lot of electricians.
I said yeah, thats what I did, you know, I mean thats what I did. And these are amazing people. The miners are amazing people, so.  So I -- I really -- and I say it, its up to you.
Youve got to get out and vote. You just dont vote, you know? I dont know why. And I think its because youve been beaten so badly as an industry, just beaten up so badly. I was talking about it with your congressmen.
Just beaten up so badly that you just dont want to do it. And I can understand. Youve got to do it. Weve got to give it one shot, you know? Takes you 25 minutes or two minutes or 10 minutes.  You have nothing to lose. You have absolutely nothing to lose, believe me. You will be happy. You will be happy.
You will be absolutely happy. So just a couple of other things. Immigration. Weve got to have strong borders or we dont have a country.  Got to have strong borders.  We are going to have a strong border. We are going to have a strong southern border. We are taking in drugs and youre having the problem here big league.
Up in New Hampshire where I won the primary, I got to know the people so well. And their number one problem they told me is heroin. I said heroin? Just doesnt go with the territory. These beautiful trees and lakes and rivers and so beautiful.
Heroin? And it is their number one problem. And now, so many people, their youth is so addicted. And weve got to take care of that. Weve got to stop it from coming in, comes in from the southern border.
And I got the -- you probably heard. The border patrol agents, 16,500 border patrol agents endorsed Donald Trump and theyve never done it before for a president.  Theyve never done it before in a presidential -- 16,500. Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Arizona, great guy.
He endorsed Donald Trump.  He probably knows borders better than anybody in the history of the world, right? Sheriff Joe, hes a great guy too. But he endorsed us and weve got to have borders. Weve got to stop the drugs from coming in.
Weve got to stop illegal immigration. You know, illegal immigrants -- and we will build a wall, dont worry about it, were going to build a wall. Going to have to, going to have to.  Were going to build a wall and Mexicos going to pay for the wall.
Theyre going to pay for it.  Just so you understand -- look, some of these politicians would get off stage with me and theyd say you know that you cant build a wall. I said really? China just built 2,000 years ago. China built a wall 2,000 years ago, 13,000 miles. We have 2,000 miles of which we really need 1,000 miles because you have a lot of natural barriers -- lot of natural barriers.
So you need a 1,000. But we have -- 2,000 years ago, a wall was built, the Great Wall of China. This is a serious wall. OK? This is a very serious wall.
And we have to build 1,000 and we have Caterpillar tractors. We have Caterpillar tractors.  Not Komatsu. We have Caterpillar.
We dont  .  No, no. We have Caterpillar. Were going to start -- remember the old days? Made in the USA, right? Remember, they used to have Made in the USA.
We dont have it anymore.  Were going to have signs just like, you know, they made these signs. I love them, too. But were going to have signs -- look how beautiful on both sides.
See? We cover them both. You like yellow. You like black. Yellow, black -- beautiful.
We cover a lot of territory, right  ? What a good looking group of people  .  Theyll be so happy in a year from now. Theyll be so happy. Its going to go fast.  But I will say that -- so we have to build the wall. And were going to build the wall. But, you know, the politicians would tell me, you cant build a wall. Really, can you build a wall? They dont know.
I mean, I built 90-story buildings. Building buildings is tough. Building a wall, boy, is that easy. Pre-cast -- pschoom.
And every time they fight me, it gets 10 feet taller, right? Every single time it gets 10 feet taller. It goes up. It goes up, up, up. The taller it gets, the safer it gets.  No, were going to have a wall. And were going to let people come into our country because we want people to come into our country. But theyre going to come into our country legally -- legally.  And then I said Mexicos going to pay for the wall.
Now, we have a trade deficit with Mexico of like close to $60 billion a year. Think of it. Mexico. Theyre making a fortune.
So these politicians say -- because its not their deal. Its not their deal. These politicians say, well, OK, maybe you can build it. But how are you going to get Mexico to pay? When you are losing so much money on trade, like we lose to Mexico, its easy.
The wall is peanuts compared to the kind of numbers were talking about, where theyre taking our jobs and building factories. So easy. But they dont know that. They dont know, because they dont have that instinct.
Its not that theyre bad people. Although in many cases, again, theyre controlled by people that dont want to see the wall. There are a lot of people that dont want to see that wall built. And those are people that have reason to not want the wall built.
And in many cases, again, theyre representing their special interest groups, their lobbyists. Their donors are representing companies where its not to the advantage to have the wall built. But were going to build the wall. Were going to stop drugs from coming in.
Were going to stop all of this illegal immigration. And I see a lot of military guys in the room. We have illegal immigrants treated better than our vets in many cases.  And thats going to stop.  We have vets that are treated so badly, the Veterans Administration is a disaster. Were going to take care of our vets. Our military is depleted. Its depleted.
Were going to build up our military. Were using fighters that are 18 years old where they cant even get parts. They have to go to airplane graveyards to get parts for our fighter jets. Two went down last week.
You saw that. So were going to make a lot of changes, folks; going to make a lot of changes. So we have, just to sum up, Obamacare out.  Repeal and replace.
Very important. Common Core -- we want education local. Were getting rid of Common Core. Were getting rid of Common Core. And its obviously not working.
Look at whats happening with our education. Look at where were ranked worldwide. Its not working, folks. We dont need bureaucrats in Washington telling us how to educate our children in Virginia, OK?  So we dont need it.
Bureaucrats that make a lot of money, by the way. Were going to have strong borders. Were going to make great, great trade deals. Were going to bring jobs back. Were going to make money. Were going to make money for our country. We need money. Were losing a fortune. Were losing almost $800 billion. Think of it, $800 billion a year trade deficits worldwide, $800 billion. Its going to end, folks. Its going to end. Were going to have great relationships with these countries and were going to trade with these countries, but its going to be a two- way street, not a one-way street. Right now, its a one-way street.  Its a one-way street to unemployment. Theyre stripping us.
Theyre stripping us of our jobs, theyre stripping us of our money. Theyre taking our manufacturing -- I mean, every time I come to a location, I have statisticians and they give me these numbers. I dont even need the statisticians no matter where I go. I mean, manufacturing way down, always way down.
Not going up, it goes down. Keeps going to down. Theyre moving to other places. Theyre moving to other countries. Theyre moving a lot to Mexico. Its not going to happen anymore, folks. Were going to keep our companies and if they want to move, thats OK, but there is going to be retribution. Its going to be -- there are going to be consequences -- going to be consequences.  They want to sell product into our country, theyre going to fire all our people. They want to sell product into our country, theyre going to have to -- sadly, theyre going to have to pay. You know, I use the case of Carrier. Every single air conditioning unit they make in Mexico, theyre going to pay a 35 percent tax.
And you know? You know whats going to happen?  Now, a lot of people dont like to hear that. A lot of the conservatives -- you know the conservatives. You know whats amazing to me? When I say Im going to renegotiate NAFTA and make it into a good deal from a disastrous deal -- now, you always have to be prepared to walk, so theres a good chance well have to walk. But Im going to make it into a good deal as opposed to a bad deal.
I get bad stories. They said thats terrible. Hes going to -- Im like why? Whats terrible? I want to make it a good deal. When I say I want to get the NATO countries to pay up -- theyre not paying, right? Theyre not paying.
Many of them. Theyre not paying what theyre supposed to be paying.  So what I have -- were supposed to protect these countries. Theyre taking advantage of the United States.
And I think NATOs a good thing. But theyre taking advantage of the United States. Theyre not paying what theyre supposed to be paying. Maybe theyre not being asked properly.
But theyre not paying. So we protect countries that arent paying. Theyve got to pay up. And you know what they -- the money, if you add it all up, you know the kind of numbers were talking about in this country? I mean, we go from a country thats really bust to a country that can just be incredible -- incredible.
And then Ill get people saying I dont like NATO. I think NATOs wonderful. It was obsolete. I said ti was obsolete because it wasnt covering terrorism properly. And they all laughed and they smiled. They said, Donald Trump said its obsolete." Well And I also said countries arent paying up, those two things. But it was obsolete because it wasnt covering terrorism. And then about four months ago, there was a front page story in the Wall Street Journal.
Got a lot of publicity. They smiled and, you know, said, Trump said its obsolete about terrorism Then, about three months ago, front page here in the Wall Street Journal. NATO to develop terrorism unit. Wow.
I said, Thank you." Thats good.  Then they gave me a tiny little mention, like about a quarter of a sentence. Donald Trump was unhappy." But they gave me like a quarter of a sentence. Thats OK.
Big progress Weve got to fix our infrastructure. Were going to fix our infrastructure so those Peterbilts arent going to be running over potholes and having lots of problems. Right? You know what Im talking about. A friend of mine in the trucking business said the roads have never, ever been so bad.
You know that, right? That the roads have never, ever been so bad. He buys beautiful new equipment and he said what these drivers go through with the potholes and the problems and the bad roads, he said, its never been like this. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. We have to fix our bridges, our tunnels, our highways, our roads, our hospitals, our schools.
We have so much to do. Weve spent -- weve spent in the Middle East -- it used to be -- thank you -- it used to be -- Ive been saying for years -- $2 trillion in Iraq. Iraq. We shouldnt have been in Iraq.
I said dont go to Iraq; youre going to destabilize the Middle East. Thats exactly what happened, and a lot of other things happened. Hillary Clintons policies have been a disaster from the time she got -- look at Libya. What did we get out of Libya? I mean, thats been a disaster.
You look at what shes done. You look at the bad decisions that shes made. You look at the bad judgment. Like Bernie Sanders said, shes got bad judgment. You look at the bad judgment. And now were going to put her in charge of our country? We wont have a country left.  So I just ask the people of Virginia and the people in this room and in particular because were in such a mining area, give it one more chance. I know youre discouraged.
Give it one more chance. If youre not feeling good, if youre so sick you cant move, if your wife got angry at you and you dont want to get out of the house, say Im sorry -- Im just sorry, Charlotte. Im going out to vote for Trump.  You have to vote.
Give it -- seriously -- give it one more chance. Go out and sign those early ballots. Go out and vote on November 8th. You can sign the ballot and you dont even have to, but give it one more chance. I promise you, you will be happy. OK, fellows? These are tough cookies. I dont want to -- Im not lying to these guys.  All right. Youve got to get them out  . Give it one more chance. And were going to start winning again as a country. Were going to start winning again.
Were going to win in so many different ways. Were going to make America great again. Were going to make America first. And were going to make America safe again. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, everybody.  Thank you. Thank you, everybody.
And then I said Mexicos going to pay for the wall. Now, we have a trade deficit with Mexico of like close to $60 billion a year. Think of it. Mexico. Theyre making a fortune. So these politicians say -- because its not their deal. Its not their deal. These politicians say, well, OK, maybe you can build it. But how are you going to get Mexico to pay?
When you are losing so much money on trade, like we lose to Mexico, its easy. The wall is peanuts compared to the kind of numbers were talking about, where theyre taking our jobs and building factories. So easy.
But they dont know that. They dont know, because they dont have that instinct. Its not that theyre bad people. Although in many cases, again, theyre controlled by people that dont want to see the wall. There are a lot of people that dont want to see that wall built. And those are people that have reason to not want the wall built. And in many cases, again, theyre representing their special interest groups, their lobbyists. Their donors are representing companies where its not to the advantage to have the wall built.
But were going to build the wall. Were going to stop drugs from coming in. Were going to stop all of this illegal immigration. And I see a lot of military guys in the room. We have illegal immigrants treated better than our vets in many cases.
And thats going to stop.
We have vets that are treated so badly, the Veterans Administration is a disaster. Were going to take care of our vets. Our military is depleted. Its depleted. Were going to build up our military. Were using fighters that are 18 years old where they cant even get parts. They have to go to airplane graveyards to get parts for our fighter jets. Two went down last week. You saw that.
So were going to make a lot of changes, folks; going to make a lot of changes.
So we have, just to sum up, Obamacare out.
Repeal and replace. Very important. Common Core -- we want education local. Were getting rid of Common Core.
Were getting rid of Common Core.
And its obviously not working. Look at whats happening with our education. Look at where were ranked worldwide. Its not working, folks. We dont need bureaucrats in Washington telling us how to educate our children in Virginia, OK?
So we dont need it. Bureaucrats that make a lot of money, by the way.
Were going to have strong borders. Were going to make great, great trade deals. Were going to bring jobs back. Were going to make money. Were going to make money for our country. We need money. Were losing a fortune. Were losing almost $800 billion. Think of it, $800 billion a year trade deficits worldwide, $800 billion. Its going to end, folks. Its going to end.
Were going to have great relationships with these countries and were going to trade with these countries, but its going to be a two- way street, not a one-way street. Right now, its a one-way street.
Its a one-way street to unemployment. Theyre stripping us. Theyre stripping us of our jobs, theyre stripping us of our money. Theyre taking our manufacturing -- I mean, every time I come to a location, I have statisticians and they give me these numbers. I dont even need the statisticians no matter where I go.
I mean, manufacturing way down, always way down. Not going up, it goes down. Keeps going to down. Theyre moving to other places. Theyre moving to other countries. Theyre moving a lot to Mexico. Its not going to happen anymore, folks. Were going to keep our companies and if they want to move, thats OK, but there is going to be retribution. Its going to be -- there are going to be consequences -- going to be consequences.
They want to sell product into our country, theyre going to fire all our people. They want to sell product into our country, theyre going to have to -- sadly, theyre going to have to pay. You know, I use the case of Carrier. Every single air conditioning unit they make in Mexico, theyre going to pay a 35 percent tax.
And you know? You know whats going to happen?
Now, a lot of people dont like to hear that. A lot of the conservatives -- you know the conservatives. You know whats amazing to me? When I say Im going to renegotiate NAFTA and make it into a good deal from a disastrous deal -- now, you always have to be prepared to walk, so theres a good chance well have to walk. But Im going to make it into a good deal as opposed to a bad deal.
I get bad stories. They said thats terrible. Hes going to -- Im like why? Whats terrible? I want to make it a good deal. When I say I want to get the NATO countries to pay up -- theyre not paying, right? Theyre not paying. Many of them. Theyre not paying what theyre supposed to be paying.
So what I have -- were supposed to protect these countries. Theyre taking advantage of the United States. And I think NATOs a good thing. But theyre taking advantage of the United States. Theyre not paying what theyre supposed to be paying. Maybe theyre not being asked properly. But theyre not paying.
So we protect countries that arent paying. Theyve got to pay up. And you know what they -- the money, if you add it all up, you know the kind of numbers were talking about in this country? I mean, we go from a country thats really bust to a country that can just be incredible -- incredible.
And then Ill get people saying I dont like NATO. I think NATOs wonderful. It was obsolete. I said ti was obsolete because it wasnt covering terrorism properly. And they all laughed and they smiled. They said, Donald Trump said its obsolete." Well
And I also said countries arent paying up, those two things. But it was obsolete because it wasnt covering terrorism. And then about four months ago, there was a front page story in the Wall Street Journal. Got a lot of publicity. They smiled and, you know, said, Trump said its obsolete about terrorism
Then, about three months ago, front page here in the Wall Street Journal. NATO to develop terrorism unit. Wow. I said, Thank you." Thats good. ""hen
They gave me a tiny little mention, like about a quarter of a sentence. Donald Trump was unhappy." But they gave me like a quarter of a sentence. Thats OK. Big progress
Weve got to fix our infrastructure. Were going to fix our infrastructure so those Peterbilts arent going to be running over potholes and having lots of problems. Right? You know what Im talking about. A friend of mine in the trucking business said the roads have never, ever been so bad. You know that, right?
That the roads have never, ever been so bad. He buys beautiful new equipment and he said what these drivers go through with the potholes and the problems and the bad roads, he said, its never been like this. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. We have to fix our bridges, our tunnels, our highways, our roads, our hospitals, our schools.
We have so much to do. Weve spent -- weve spent in the Middle East -- it used to be -- thank you -- it used to be -- Ive been saying for years -- $2 trillion in Iraq. Iraq. We shouldnt have been in Iraq. I said dont go to Iraq; youre going to destabilize the Middle East. Thats exactly what happened, and a lot of other things happened.
Hillary Clintons policies have been a disaster from the time she got -- look at Libya. What did we get out of Libya? I mean, thats been a disaster. You look at what shes done. You look at the bad decisions that shes made. You look at the bad judgment. Like Bernie Sanders said, shes got bad judgment. You look at the bad judgment.
And now were going to put her in charge of our country? We wont have a country left.
So I just ask the people of Virginia and the people in this room and in particular because were in such a mining area, give it one more chance. I know youre discouraged. Give it one more chance. If youre not feeling good, if youre so sick you cant move, if your wife got angry at you and you dont want to get out of the house, say Im sorry -- Im just sorry, Charlotte. Im going out to vote for Trump.
You have to vote. Give it -- seriously -- give it one more chance. Go out and sign those early ballots. Go out and vote on November 8th. You can sign the ballot and you dont even have to, but give it one more chance. I promise you, you will be happy. OK, fellows? These are tough cookies. I dont want to -- Im not lying to these guys.
All right. Youve got to get them out . Give it one more chance. And were going to start winning again as a country. Were going to start winning again. Were going to win in so many different ways. Were going to make America great again. Were going to make America first. And were going to make America safe again.
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, everybody.
