Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Murphysboro, Illinois|October 27, 2018
Well, I want to thank everybody, because this was a rough, rough day for all of us. You know that? And I have to start by saying, hello, Illinois, special place, special people, great people. Hello, Illinois. And Ill tell you what, with this crowd, Mike Bost is going to win big. He has to win big. He has to win big.
But its great to be back in the heartland with thousands of hard-working American patriots, as we work to re-elect a great man, and actually, to be honest, we have three great congressmen here with us today. And were going to get every one of them in office. And I want to just thank you. But I do specifically -- hes been so great on steel and getting your jobs back, I felt I owed it to a congressman to come up today, Mike Bost.
Thank you. Hes been fighting for you, and very hard. Before going any further, I want to address the horrible shooting that took place earlier today. The hearts of all Americans are filled with grief following the monstrous killing of Jewish Americans at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Youve all seen it. Youve been watching it. Its horrible. The suspect is in custody. The federal authorities are on the scene and leading an aggressive federal investigation. State and local law enforcement has been incredible. This evil, anti-Semitic attack is an assault on all of us. Its an assault on humanity.
It will require all of us working together to extract the hateful poison of anti-Semitism from our world. This was an anti-Semitic attack at its worst. The scourge of anti-Semitism cannot be ignored, cannot be tolerated, and it cannot be allowed to continue. We cant allow it to continue. It must be confronted and condemned everywhere it rears its very ugly head.
We must stand with our Jewish brothers and sisters to defeat anti-Semitism and vanquish the forces of hate. Thats what it is. Through the centuries, the Jews have endured terrible persecution, and you know that. Weve all read it. Weve studied it. Theyve gone through a lot. And those seeking their destruction, we will seek their destruction.
And when you have crimes like this, whether its this one or another one on another group, we have to bring back the death penalty. They have to pay the ultimate price. They have to pay the ultimate price. They cant do this. They cant do this to our country. We must draw a line in the sand and say very strongly: Never again.
Tonight, everyone in this arena and every citizen across the land sends our prayers to the victims and their families. And we all do. We also send our gratitude to the law enforcement officers, who were incredible and who risked their lives and sustained very, very serious injuries during this horrible attack.
We salute the heroes of American law enforcement. We always do. We always do. We know how much we appreciate them, and yet theyre underappreciated. They have done such an incredible job for so long, and its a tough job. We see it now. We see it now maybe like weve never seen it before. And this is the time to renew the bonds of love and loyalty that hold us all together as Americans.
These bonds have always sustained our nation in its hour of need. You know that. Everybody here knows that. And they are always more powerful than the forces of hatred and division, anger and evil. In America, we love our families, we love our neighbors, and we protect our community. We -- we trust in God... we protect the freedom of worship... and we believe in the power of prayer.
We defend our Constitution, we defend our heritage, and we rally around our great American flag like nobody does. All of us here tonight are united by these same American values. And we are all fighting to defend these values in this election. This is a very, very important election. This could be, and Ive said it, and Ive heard it, and they have spoken it many times, this is our most important midterm election perhaps ever.
Because weve made so much progress. This is steel country and lots of other country. We have made so much progress, we dont want to give up that progress. We cant allow that to happen. Under Republican leadership, America is booming like never before, because we are finally putting America first. And because we put America first, I had a big decision to make.
I just spoke to the Future Farmers of America in Indianapolis. And with what happened early today, that horrible, horrible attack in Pittsburgh, I was saying maybe I should cancel both this and that. And then I said to myself, I remember Dick Grasso, a friend of mine, great guy. He headed up the New York Stock Exchange on September 11th. And the New York Stock Exchange was open the following day.
He said -- and what they had to do to open it, you wouldnt believe. We wont even talk to you about it, but he got that exchange open. We cant make these sick, demented, evil people important. And when we... And when we start changing around our lives and changing around our schedules and telling thousands and thousands -- look at this group of people and outside... And I hate to say it, but outside you have a group thats almost as big or just as big trying to get in. So you got the better location, but... But they have a better movie screen, OK? And theyre great.
I see them right there, a lot of people, and great people. But we cant allow people like this to become important. And when we change all of our lives in order to accommodate them, its not acceptable. So I thought of it for a little while, and the press said, are you going to cancel these two events? And frankly, the Future Farmers, I could have done that one.
But this is a rally for Mike Bost, and frankly this one maybe I could have, except I dont want to change our life for somebody thats sick and evil. And I dont think we ever should. I dont think we ever should. Remember the New York Stock Exchange. Remember the teams, the Yankees, George Steinbrenner.
He said weve got to play, even if nobody comes, if nobody shows up, we got to play. And I remember that George was a tough man. He was a friend of mine. But he was a good man. And he said we got to play. And they all played. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. And I love the people up here, also, and I didnt want to have any excuse.
I could have had a little bit of an excuse. There was no excuses. We have our lives, we have our schedules, and nobodys going to change it, OK? So were here. So lets have a good time. And if you dont mind, Im going to tone it down just a little bit. Is that OK?  No? I had a -- youre from Illinois.
I had a feeling you might say that. I know you well. I had a feeling you might say that. But I do. I really appreciate it. And you are amazing people. And we wouldnt miss this. We wouldnt miss this. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Great people. Youre great people. You built America. You built America.
The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years. We produced. More Americans are working today than at any point in the history of our country. Think of that. And I dont want to be rude, but your steel industry was dead as a doornail and now its a hot industry again. A hot industry.
They can dump if they want, but theyre going to pay a big price. And thats what happened. And US Steel is bringing back many plants. You know that. And theyre opening up some new ones. And Nucor, you see what theyre doing. Theyre building brand-new beautiful plants. And I saw plans of one of them. Theyre so proud of them.
You didnt think youd see that day when theyre starting to build the new steel plants. And the steel workers, I said to a couple of them, big, strong guys. They came up to me. One of them said, thank you, sir, for saving our country. And he was crying. And Im telling you, he was crying. I dont think this guy cried when he was a baby.
This guy never cried. But he said that. And Ive had a lot of people said -- usually when Im backstage, people will just say thank you for saving our country. And I really at the beginning... Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you. And at the beginning, when people would say that to me, Id sort of, like, you know, Id say its surreal, thats a big statement.
But I realize now, when I see whats happening and whats going on and the no border theory and -- and take everybody into our country, when we cant... I realize -- I realize that if our opponent -- not my opponent, but if our opponent got in, our country would be in really serious trouble, maybe to a point where it never could come back again.
We are bringing it back. We just passed a massive tax cut for working families. And we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class. Were working on it with Kevin Brady. Were putting our coal miners back to work. Clean coal. Clean coal. That was a gone industry, Ill tell you.
Were putting them back to work. Clean coal, beautiful, clean coal. What they do with coal today. And I know you wont like this much, but were putting our steel workers back to work, right? We are really putting them back to work. We are putting our steel workers back to work. And by the way, thats an industry.
You cant do without steel. You know, we were at a point where we were just running on fumes, and we need steel for defense and aluminum, by the way, which is also roaring back. But we need steel and aluminum for defense. Some industries, you can. You can go buy it from somebody. We cant lose steel. So with those furnaces are starting up all over the place, its a beautiful thing to see.
Im very proud of it. Very proud of it. Thank you. Thank you, darling. Over the last two decades, nearly two-thirds of American raw steel companies went out of business. Did you know that? Two-thirds. And the rest were on fumes. More than one-third of the steel jobs -- and now it was getting up to about 62 percent -- were vanquished, they were gone.
You could say vanquished and vanished. Its a combination of both. More than 70,000 hard-working Americans saw their jobs eliminated and their way of life destroyed. They want to make steel. And I said to them, how about another industry? Well teach you how to make a computer, little computers. Guys says -- his hands are like this.
His -- He doesnt want to make a computer. He wants to make steel. Does that make sense? I said the same thing to the miners in West Virginia. Remember that? I got -- I won that by 42 percent. Nobodys ever heard of it. Nobody ever heard of it. Over a Democrat, not like an independent over a Democrat, name, Hillary Clinton.
But... But...  But I said to these beautiful guys, these -- the West Virginia, big, strong guys, their fathers were in the mines, their grandfathers, their great -- thats what they do. I said, fellas, supposing we take you to Silicon Valley...  And well teach you, like, how to make these beautiful little keyboards, these beautiful computers.
They looked at me like, hey -- you know the expression. We want to dig coal. Thats what they want to do. Nobody does it better in the world. And thats what they want to do. Guess what? Thats what theyre doing again, OK? Clean coal. Not far from here in Illinois, the historic Granite City Works had idled two blast furnaces.
You know, two of your blast furnaces were down. The whole place was down. And laid off hundreds and hundreds of American workers. But the era of economic surrender is over for our country. Its over. And earlier this year, I kept a very crucial promise. To protect our national security, I imposed a 10 percent tariff on foreign aluminum and a 25 percent tariff on foreign steel.
And now our steel, aluminum industries are roaring back to life, like nothing youve ever seen. Three months ago, Congressman Mike Bost, by my side, and Ill tell you what, he called me, sir, could you come? I said, who is this guy? He doesnt stop. Hes a great guy. He called me, and I came to Illinois, and we celebrated the reopening of two blast furnaces at Granite City.
And it turned out that that was just the beginning. Thanks to our tariffs -- number one, you dont hear this -- hundreds of millions of dollars is being paid into the coffers of the United States Treasury. Thats OK, too. You dont hear that. Hundreds of Illinois steelworkers and steelworkers all over the country are now back on the job, pouring 2.7 million tons of raw American steel into the spine of our country.
After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country. And we are doing it with American steel and American pride. The choice for every American this November is between resistance and results. How about the Democrats? No, no. Their whole theme is resist. Oh, thats great. Resist.
Its actually the thing that theyre good at. Their policies are no good. Theyre not good as politicians. What they do, do is they stick together and they resist and obstruct. If you dont want to be saying the words, ladies and gentlemen, Speaker Nancy Pelosi for the next two years... vote Republican. Youve got to get out and vote.
And two great guys who are from a little further away, and theyre doing well, but you never know in this business. Were honored to be joined tonight by Congressman Randy Hultgren and Congressman Rodney Davis. Come up, Randy and Rodney. Come up, please. These two guys are warriors, along with Mike. Mike Bost is a warrior. Get them in. Come on up, fellas.
Thank you, Mr. President. God bless you all. This is amazing. We need your vote. My name is Randy Hultgren. I represent the northern suburbs. Weve got a tough battle running against a very liberal who absolutely is dying to support Nancy Pelosi for speaker. Weve got to stop that. Weve got to hold the House.
Weve got to continue to fight for this great country. God bless you all. Get out and vote. Vote early. Thank you.
Hey, everyone. When I was up here earlier talking about the success of Republican leadership in Washington, working with President Trump, what was that chant we made?
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. I have to tell them -- be careful of that runway. You know, that runway is so narrow. Can you imagine if I went down on the runway, oh, would there be a -- oh. Oh. No, no, could you imagine? It would be -- youre right. Well, maybe theyd give me a pass and theyd say lets not show them, no? Im always very careful.
You know, its funny. I walk down the planes is very -- nobody cares if you walk nice and easy, so -- because if I ever tripped or stumbled just a little bit, itll be headline news.  And whoevers doing these runways, whoever the hell it is. Please make them a little bit wider, because that sucker is narrow.
That is a narrow runway. Finally, its my pleasure to introduce the person we are all here tonight to support, Congressman Mike Bost. Mike fights every day for the hardworking people of Illinois, and I know it probably better than anyone. He calls me. Please, youve got to help my people. Other people, honestly, other people dont care.
This guy cares. Thats why Im here. Thats why Im here. He voted to cut your taxes, reduce your regulations, protect your Medicare, protect your pre-existing conditions. Mike Bost defends Illinois farmers, Illinois miners, and Illinois steel workers. Mike, come on up.
Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you. Thank you for coming out and showing how much we love our president, Donald Trump. Thank you. And the most important -- the most important thing to remember, the other two gentlemen that were up here, if youre in their district, get out and vote. If youre in our district, get out and vote.
Why? Because if you want our president to continue to succeed, you cannot allow Nancy Pelosi to take that House back. Its up to you, Mr. President. Thank you. Thank you for leading in a way that we need America to be led, and thank you for coming to Southern Illinois.
Good job. Thank you, Mike. And a vote for Mike is really a continuation to make America great again. Very simple. Very simple. Now, I did a little tiny bit of research. And Mikes opponent, Brendan Kelly, is a vote for Nancy Pelosi and, of course, Maxine Waters... and their job-killing agenda. Brendan Kelly opposes your tax cuts.
Hes weak on crime. Hes for open borders. Can you believe some -- seriously. Forget about -- forget about Brendan Kelly. Lets say youre a politician and youre running on this platform, open borders, were going to take care of illegal aliens health care. OK? Think of it. Were going to raise your taxes.
Think of it. How do you -- how do you win a race like that? Seriously. How does anybody win a race like that? I dont know. Brendan Kelly is beholden to the far-left Democrats funding his campaign. His third-largest contributor is a group of ultra-liberal -- you know who they are, whose name tells you everything you need to know.
Its called Swing Left. You like -- do you like -- so I think these people dont want to swing left. If you want to stand up for American jobs, factories, and workers, you must vote for Mike Bost. The Republican agenda is Americas agenda. Republicans want to lower your taxes, they want less regulation, they want fair trade deals.
Oh, am I making you good, fair trade deals. Im not making you fair trade deals. Im making you unfair trade deals in our favor, OK? Its about time. You have been ripped off by a lot of countries. And I dont blame the countries. I dont blame them. I blame us. I blame our leadership. They should have never allowed NAFTA.
You look at NAFTA. You look at that. You look at what the European Union has done to us. You look at what China has done to us for so many years. So were in a little dispute with China. We put $250 billion worth of tariffs on China at 25 percent. And I think were going to make a deal. You know, look, if we do good and if we dont, thats OK, but we have a tremendous -- and we can put another $257 billion -- billion dollars worth of tariffs on China.
And I have a feeling that everythings going to work out. They want to make a deal. I said, youre not ready yet. Youre not ready yet. Remember they said, please make a deal with Canada. Please, these politicians stand up, not Mike, not Mike. Not the other two, either. The other two are saying dont do -- do whatever you want, because they want a great deal.
You know, you cant just run and make it. Canada has had an unbelievable deal. Canada, we love Canada, we love Canada. And I actually like the prime minister. I do. But -- but I have to -- good guy. No. But for years and years, theyve taken advantage. They had on dairy products a tariff of 275 percent. Nobody knew that until I came along and explained it. This woman goes, what?
Youre about four months late, but thats OK.  And its always tough. You know, youre negotiating -- and Im telling Mexico and Canada, hey, I dont care if we ever make a deal, and then Ill have congressmen and senators standing up saying he must make a deal with Canada, he must make a deal with Mexico.
And Im telling them, I couldnt care less if I make a deal. It doesnt really work. It doesnt work. But it did work. And you know what? We made a great deal, and I think they -- hopefully they made a great deal for Canada, they made a great deal for Mexico, and we all live happily ever after, but we have now got the USMCA.
Its a great deal. And we opened the borders and our companies will not be flowing into other countries, because now, if they do, they pay a tremendous penalty. Republicans want strong borders, no crime, and no caravans, right? We dont want caravans. Were not having caravans.  So we started the wall.
We spent $1.6 billion. We then spent another $1.6 billion. Now were spending another $1.6 billion. But I want to do it all at one time, but you know what? Watch, just watch. Theyre going to go crazy when I say this. Youre going to be so happy next week. Youre going to see something happen next week. Youre going to be very happy.
Youre going to be very happy. And you know, the military is going to the border. You do know that. And I want the people of the caravan to come into our country, but they have to come in legally, like all of the millions of people that are waiting on line right now. They cant break into our borders. Theyre not going to. Weve done an incredible job, ICE, Border Patrol, weve done -- you know, I always say, its my fault.
You know why its my fault? Because the country is doing so well, its so successful that everybody wants to come here. But it doesnt work that way. So its my fault. I take the blame. I take the blame. If we let the country fail, wed have no problem. But we dont want to do that. We dont want to do that.
So youre going to see -- we called in the military. The military, oh, theyre ready, theyre ready. And I wish I could just tell them -- and I say it, caravan, turn around. Youre not coming in. Youre not coming in. Im sorry. We have taken thousands of MS-13 out of this country, ICE. Weve gotten them out.
And if you look at that large group, sometimes it gets up to 17,000 people, they say. Today they said its really gets bigger and bigger. And doesnt make any difference, because theyre not coming in. Theyre not coming in. The military is all ready. And were going to have border protection. You watch.
Were going to have a very strong border protection. But theyre not coming in. They cant come in. We want them very badly. We actually need people for our companies, because we have many, many companies coming in to the United States. Theyre coming in, car companies, theyre going into Michigan and Ohio and all over.
Theyre coming into Illinois, get your taxes down a little bit. We got to get your taxes down. Right? But theyre coming in to Illinois. But we have car companies, theyre going North, South Carolina. Theyre coming into Florida. Prime Minister Abe was showing me. We have a list of companies, theyre all -- and you know why?
Because Japan has made so much money for so many years. I say we have to even it up now, folks. We have to even it up now. The European Union, last year, they made $151 billion. They wont take our product, but we take their Mercedes-Benzes and their BMWs. Not going to happen anymore, unless we straighten it out.
They understand that. And with China, thats the big one. Thats the big one. China has been averaging $500 billion for many years. And I told President Xi, who I like a lot, hes the president of China, strong, smart, I said, I dont blame you. I was giving a speech in China, and I was ranting and raving about how China has been ripping off the country.
And then I realized I was in China. This wasnt playing too well.  I said, this speech is not -- this speech is not playing well. And I looked at President Xi. He was looking up, what the hell is this all about?  And I looked at him, I said, but I dont blame you. And he felt better. But he wanted to know why.
I said, I dont blame you, because our leaders were missing in action. They should have never let it happen. Just like they should have never let the whole situation in North Korea happen, get to that point. But were doing great there now. No more rockets, right? I say all the time, no more rockets, no more missiles, no more nuclear testing.
We got our hostages back. Were getting our remains, the remains of our great heroes, theyre coming back. And we have a good relationship with Kim Jong-un. We have a great relationship with Chairman Kim. And we feel good about it. So theres not much they can say. Look, theres no more testing. Theyre closing sites.
Theres no more nuclear. Theres no more -- the nuclear testing stopped. Theres no missiles going over Japan. Think of it. We got our hostages back. We got our hostages back. We didnt -- hey, people said well never get the remains back. Vice President Mike Pence got the remains. He greeted the remains of these great, great heroes.
All right? In Hawaii, were getting the remains back. So the only thing they said is now, when did I leave there, three months ago, would you say, Singapore? Would you say its three months? No much more. So lets say I left three or four months ago. The only thing they say is, its not moving fast enough.
Theyve been working on this for 70 years. Ive been doing it for four months. And the rhetoric was very tough. Remember? Very, very tough. They actually said this is horrible, the way hes talking, horrible. This is going to cause war. Well, you would have been in a war the other way. This is going to cause war.
Horrible, oh, did they go after me. So now all they can say is two things. They can say we met. Remember? Because weve got everything. Were working along. Were getting along great. Its going to be great for North Korea. North Korea will become a great economic place, that location so good, between China, Russia, and South Korea.
What a location. Its going to be fantastic. But you know what? So they said, how can we go after President Trump? Ah, he met. I met. In other words, I met. Think of that. What did I give? I met. So that was one thing. The other thing they say is, its not going fast enough. What, three and a half months?
And nothings happened. Its so good. And remember when I first came in or just before I came in, right, just before, everyone really thought we were going to war and that was going to be a potential nuclear catastrophe. Well, I cant -- no, I mean, look, who knows in life, right? Im not going to say -- I can only say the relationship is really good and were really in good shape and theyre in really good shape and theyre happy and were happy.
And if it takes long, I dont care. I tell my people, I couldnt care how long. As long as theres no testing, as long as theres no nuclear testing, moving mountains over a little bit, thats the kind of testing. But its working well. But you remember when they said its too rough, the rhetoric. You remember the -- I dont even want to say it now, because I have such a good relationship.
I wont even say it. I wont even say it. But the rhetoric was brutal. But ultimately, it was all very important to get this to a point where now we really have a relationship. Now -- and again, who knows? But I think its working out really well. And before I got there, you were in trouble. This was going to be a big war, millions of people killed.
Seoul is 30 miles away from that border. And you talk about a protected border. Thats a serious border. Thats a wall like you never saw before. You look at the wall and you say, uh, Ill pass, Im going back home.  That is a -- that is a -- I looked at it. I saw it. Thats a real deal. Its a fence with a lot of electric current going through it. A lot of different things happening on that fence.
You know what you say, you take a look at that, you say, Im passing. But you know, its funny. So with that one, they said, hes too tough, its too strong. The rhetoric is -- were going to end up in war. I had a great meeting with Vladimir Putin. Great meeting. We got -- I talked about everything. We will do great.
And dont forget, Russia wants our help economically. Were an economic -- we have created such wealth. I have done a really good job, $11.7 trillion. Russia wants us to be involved. Russia wants us. Everybody wants our help. I brought up the pipeline. I said, why is Germany paying billions of dollars a month for energy in a pipeline that goes to Russia?
Why is Germany giving billions of dollars to Russia and then were supposed to protect Germany and Europe from Russia? So theyre paying the person and the country. Think of it. Theyre giving billions of dollars for the pipeline. Nobody else brought that up. Nobody else. I brought it up. But they said, he was too nice to Putin.
So with one, I was too rough, the other one Im too nice. And let me tell you, if I walked up to President Putin and started a boxing match, and I would have done just fine. But if I walked up to President Putin and started a boxing match, they would have said, he was too tough, this is terrible. In other words, makes no difference, makes no difference.
But we had a very successful meeting With Russia and President Putin, and were just doing great in foreign affairs. We are doing so much better than anybody thought possible. So much better than weve done in years. And well end up getting along well with Russia, well with North Korea well with China after we equalize out.
But were getting along with a lot of people. And part of the reason were doing that, and very important for us, is we have built and are in the process of building by far the strongest military that weve ever had. We have to have it. We have to have it. But even that, its economics, because people want a part of this dream.
You know, every country virtually that comes in to see me, the prime minister, the king, the queen, the president, every country, they start off by saying, Mr. President, congratulations on what youve done. Weve never seen numbers like this coming out of the United States. Weve never seen anything like it. Weve never seen... And if we can help other countries -- and that includes the big ones and the strong ones, I want to help them.
We want to get along with everybody. We want to get along with everybody. But we want to have a level playing field, not what we had before. OK? Earlier this month, we achieved a historic victory for our Constitution and for the rule of law. We proudly confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh.
Right? Boy, oh, did they treat him horribly. Did they treat him badly. A great scholar, a great intellect, a great person, great family. Did they treat him badly or what? That was hard to believe. This will be the election of the caravans, the Kavanaughs, law and order, tax cuts, and you know what else? Its going to be the election of common sense, because most of its common sense.
A lot of its common sense. People say hes a great, great conservative. You know, if somebody else did what I did, two great Supreme Court justices already, Justice Neil Gorsuch, dont forget, one of the greats. He will be -- hes doing fantastically. Another great intellect, great scholar, Harvard, Oxford.
These are a serious, great people. Justice Kavanaugh, Yale, then Yale Law, top, top talent. I heard with Justice Kavanaugh for years, long before I thought of doing this, 10 years ago, I heard someday theres a man named Brett Kavanaugh, hell be on the Supreme Court. I said, who is that? But I really didnt care, because I didnt figure Id be putting him on the Supreme Court, right?
I hadnt given it too much thought at that time. That was a long time ago, 10 years ago. But we are doing great. But if somebody named Bill Smith was president and he did the things I did, tax cuts, regulation cuts, two Supreme Court justices, right to try, you look at all of the things weve done for the vets, you look at the rebuilding of our military, $700 billion.
And his name was Bill Smith, President Bill, they would say he is the greatest conservative of all time. But because his name is Donald Trump, you have the haters and they continue to hate -- these are foolish and very stupid people. Very stupid people. No, I see some of these guys -- seriously, and, look, for the most part, I think -- I just came out -- was it 93 percent?
Id ask the Hollywood -- look, this is like the Academy Awards. Look how many cameras they have back there. Its the Academy Awards. We are in the Academy Awards. But 93 percent of the people in the Republican Party, its like a record or something like that, 93 percent have a high approval rating of Trump.
OK? But Im not -- Im not talking. Im talking about that tiny, little -- you know, the losers that were -- the losers that were some guy named Kristol, Bill Kristol. He -- listen. He called it wrong from day one. He said hes not going to run. OK, I ran. He is not going to win the primaries. OK, I won the primaries.
He will not win the election. I won the election. He will never get a Supreme Court justice approved. I got that. He will never get tax cuts. I got that. He will never cut regulations. I cut more regulations than anybody in the history of the country. I mean, these are losers. Why do they put them on television?
Seriously? Why are they on -- every time I watch -- and I want to say, gee, I wish you could almost like debate these people. Theyre like fools. And just say every single thing that theyve wanted in their whole life that they never would have gotten, Ive got them. And they still hate Donald Trump. Its incredible.
Fake. No, but theres fake -- and honestly theres fake on our side, also, although I dont even know if they are. But I could name the names. I just dont want to get into it. But you know what Im talking about. So we have the greatest conservative agenda ever, but I dont view it that way. Somebody started, are you a great conservative?
I say honestly -- and I think youll understand this, because you people, you built this country, OK? You built this country. You can understand this. You can understand this. And I just said it. I am somebody that has tremendous common sense. So whether its conservative or not conservative, its the right thing, but its common sense.
OK? Its common sense. And when I see open borders and come on in, I mean, in California, he wants open borders, the man running for governor, the Democrat, and I think your Republicans are doing a good job out there. But its a hard place, because the Democrats, who knows. But in California, he wants open borders.
He wants to take care of all welfare, all medical everything. He wants to pay for college education and education. He wants to pay for medical. I mean, California is going to have more people than the United States of America. No, seriously. People are going to come from all over the world. They get free education, free health care.
I mean, does anybody really believe -- and by the way, they owe about 14 zillion dollars. And they just put a gas tax on that the Republican candidate wants to take off. He should win, John Cox. He should win. Hes so good. Its a hard place to win, but he should win. He wants to take off the gas tax. They have a gas tax.
But its really -- I think I am the person and I am running -- Im conservative, but Im running on common sense. Its all common sense. We cant let people break in and assault our country. We cant let -- you saw the caravan. I mean, you look at it. Sometimes it is massive. How the hell can we take everyone in? And some of those people are people that we dont want.
I hate to say it. Some of those people are people that we do not want. And some of those people I would love to have, because we need them, but they have to apply. As we speak, the Democrat -- not the Democratic -- the Democrat -- I hate saying it. You know, it so -- that doesnt flow right. I say the Democrat Party, and I always say it, because its the right thing.
Their name is the "Democrat Party." It sounds so much more beautiful, the "Democratic Party," right? And I say to myself, I dont want to tell them they should probably change their name. But as much as I hate saying it, because it sounds badly, and it doesnt roll off your lips, the Democrat Party is openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders, and overwhelm our country.
And Democrat sanctuary cities released these criminal aliens out of jail and right onto your streets. And you have it up here more than you know. You do know that. Illinois. Congratulations. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And the Republican Party will always stand proudly with the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol and law enforcement and those great Pittsburgh police officers.
You saw the job they did. We stand with them, and we wish them well. God bless them. Seriously injured. This election is about borders, and this election is about jobs. In less than two years time, we have created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps. Think of that.
Because theyre working. Do you know how much money our country saves when we do that? And you have happy people. We have created almost half-a-million new manufacturing jobs. Think of that. Remember? Youd need a magic wand. Nobodys manufacturing anymore. I kept saying, when I heard the past administration -- Im being nice.
I want to be nice! When I heard the past administration say that we dont have to make things anymore, I say explain that to the people of Illinois, please, OK? And actually the number is going to be 600,000 new manufacture. And these are our best jobs. African American poverty has reached an all-time, historic low, lowest its ever been.
Thats why Kanye West and Big Jim Brown, and so many others, so many others. African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment have reached their lowest rates in the history of our country. How do you win that one? If Im in a debate, and you know the Democrats have always laid claim, because it was sort of like an automatic vote, its not automatic anymore.
Take a look at the polls. Smart, theyre smart people, and take a look at the polls. Not automatic anymore. And how do you win that statement? How do you win the statement that we have now? Lets say Im in a debate with one of these Democrats, whoever is chosen. So far. I, like the field very much.  Somebody said, who do you like best?
I said I like them all. So far. But how do you lose a debate where you say as an example -- no, we cant use Pocahontas anymore. Shes got no Indian blood. We cant use the name. He says call her Pocahontas. I cant do it. She doesnt have any Indian blood. I have more than she does, and I have none. Right?
I have none, but its more than her. So I cant call her Pocahontas anymore, but I think I will anyway. Do you mind? I think I will anyway. But how do you lose a debate -- youre up in a debate, millions of people are watching, and theyre going to say what theyre doing for the African Americans and what theyre doing for the Asians, what theyre doing for the Hispanic Americans.
And I say, excuse me, but we just had the best job numbers in the history of our country for all of those groups. How do you win that? You know what happens? They go, uh, OK, lets get on to the next subject. But thats not all. Almost every category, every number is the best. Except I failed with women.
You know that. Womens unemployment just fell to 3.6 percent, which is only the lowest rate in 65 years. So thats not historic. Were going to get there soon. Remember last election? They said he will do badly with -- look at all the women signs, right? He will do badly. I love you, too. He will do badly with women.
He will not get the women. Did you see the women vote? I think I won the election because of the women, not the men. No, we did very well with the men, too. We did well with the men, too. The men get it. They get it. Were bringing down the price of prescription drugs massively. This week, I took historic action to stop the global free -- you know what this is. We actually capitalize it. Global freeloading in which drug companies charge higher prices for Americans to subsidize lower prices for countries throughout the rest of the world.
Other than that, its very fair to us. Were not doing that anymore. Secretary Azar has done an incredible job. Drug prices will be falling radically. Got a lot of people that are middlemen that arent going to like me too much. Republicans are also strongly protecting Medicare. A majority of Democrats on the ballot for Congress have already signed up for a government takeover of health care that would obliterate Medicare and terminate Medicare Advantage for half a million Illinois seniors who depend on it. It will obliterate it. Republicans will defend Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it. And whether you know it or not, theyve actually paid for it. This week, I proudly -- very proudly signed into law the largest bill to fight the opioid epidemic, largest in American history, $6 billion to fight a big problem that you have in Illinois and that we have all over the country.
We passed veterans choice, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor, rather than waiting on line for weeks and weeks and weeks. Forty four years theyve been trying to pass that. I got it passed, its signed as of two months ago. Its finished. Heres a veteran. Are you happy? Are you happy?
Thank you. Hes happy. Thank you, man. Thank you. Thank you. He just said you saved our country. I love you, veteran. Thank you, man. Hold up that American flag. Hold it up. Great. Thank you. Thank you. I like him. I like him. At first, I thought he was a protester. We dont seem to have too many protesters anymore.
You notice, a lot of love in these rooms. We dont have too many -- I shouldnt say that, theyll start sending paid protesters that are...  And the landmark V.A. accountability law, dont forget that, to ensure anyone who mistreats our great veterans -- and by the way, in primetime they would have never mistreated our veterans.
But they were bad. We have a sadist. We have some bad people. Theyre gone, boom, we fire them. You werent able to get that for 45 years. We got it signed. We got that signed, too, veterans choice and accountability. Theyre accountable if they steal, if they rob, if they hurt our veterans, if theyre not there, if they punch in but theyre not there, we can fire them.
And you think that was easy to get through unions and civil service? It wasnt. But we got it passed, and I signed it, and they let go of a lot of people that were not treating our veterans properly. We secured $716 billion to fully rebuild the United States military, and at my direction the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American armed forces, the Space Force.
Space Force. Very important, very important. And I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal. It was a catastrophe. And Iran is not the same country anymore. I hate to say it. And we have recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And altogether, because I dont know whether you know it or not, but I know it, and a lot of you do know it, this is the greatest political movement in the history of our country.
This is the greatest in the history of our country. We have a lot of bad people out there trying to hurt us, but were not going to let that happen. Weve made extraordinary progress, and were just getting started. Keep winning, he said. Youre right. Were going to keep winning. Were going to win so much you people are going to get so disgusted and tired.
Youre going to be so tired of winning. Youre going to go to Mike Bost, and youre going to say, please, Mike, get them -- with the president, we can stand all this winning. The truth is, we are winning. Were starting to win a lot, you have to say. Mike, talk to him. Talk to him. Talk to our president.
Were not used to this. Weve been losing for so many years here in Illinois, and now were winning. Our steel is coming back. Our taxes are going down. Our regulations are going out. We got health care thats good. We got rid of the individual mandate disaster from Obamacare. Mike, we dont want to win so much.
Were getting tired of winning. its getting boring. And Ill say, I dont care, Mike, Im not going to obey that one. Were going to keep -- you go back and tell the people of Illinois and the rest of this country were going to keep on winning. I dont care. I dont care if they like it or not, were going to keep on winning.
I dont care. But I know the people of this country, and the people of this country, they want to keep on winning. That I can tell you. If you vote Republican this November, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut your regulations, and raise your incomes like weve been doing. Think of where you are now compared to where you were three or four or five years ago.
Its like a different planet. We will protect your right to free speech and religious liberty. And we will continue to appoint judges who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. We will fully secure our border. We will pass Kates law. We will stop sanctuary cities, stop catch and release, end the visa lottery disaster.
We will end chain migration, and we will keep the criminal drug dealers and terrorists the hell out of our country. We will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. Thats whats going to happen. And theyre going to love it. For years, you watched as your leaders apologized for America.
Now you have a president who is standing up for America. We are standing up for your values, we are standing up for our great steelworkers, we are standing up for the great state of Illinois, and we are proudly standing up for our national anthem. To continue our incredible momentum, you need to get your friends, get your family, get your co-workers, and get out and vote early for Mike Bost.
Loyal citizens like you helped build this country. And together we are taking back our country, returning power to you, the American people. Thats who were doing, and thats what were doing. Illinois is the state that gave us two of our greatest Republican presidents. Not bad, by the way. Not bad. I mean, you got to pick two.
These arent the worst. I can think of a little bit lower down the ladder. You gave us Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan. Not bad. Wow. Thats not a bad job. Theyd be high on my list. And Illinois is the state that gave us generations of proud farmers and steelworkers and miners and soldiers and patriots who made our country into the most powerful nation on Earth.
And we are now more powerful. We have a greater military right now and getting better all the time. Our military is bigger and better and stronger. We have never had anything like it. And you know what? The stronger it gets, the less likely it is that well ever have to use it, because thats the way the world works.
And everything is made in the USA. Everything. The greatest ships and missiles and rockets, the greatest jet fighters and bombers and tankers, the greatest submarines in the world, its all made right here in the USA. This state was settled by tough pioneer women. Really, they were tough. Much tougher than the men, by the way, but we wont -- tough women.
Strong women. Beautiful women, Im not allowed to say that. Theyre strong, theyre tough, and theyre beautiful. And the men werent so bad, either. The men went along for the ride. The men werent bad, either, OK? Is that enough for you, men? No, theyre not too happy about it. From the foundries to the farm fields of southern Illinois, your ancestors worked, they sacrificed, they built a life and a home with their own two hands.
They didnt have a lot of money. They didnt have a lot of luxury. But they all had one thing in common: They loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God. These courageous Americans did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy, tear down our history, and destroy our proud American heritage.
For the sake of our freedom and for the sake of our great children, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win, and we are going to keep winning. It will be total victory. You know it and so do I. We will not bend, we will not break, we will never give in, we will never give up, we will never back down, we will never surrender, and we will always fight on to victory, always.
We are one people and one family with one glorious American destiny. We all share the same home. We all share the same heart. We all salute the same flag. And we are all made by the same almighty God.
