Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Colorado Springs, CO|July 29, 2016
Thank you. Thank you very much. So I have to tell you this. This is why our country doesnt work. You understand. So we have thousands of people in a room next door. We have plenty of space here. We have thousands of people outside trying to get in and we have a Fire Marshall that said, oh we cant allow more people.
It really is so unfair to the people. Im -- Im so sorry and I have to apologize but its not my fault. I just came here. But we have thousands of beautiful, wonderful, great people outside. And we have, in the room next door, over a thousand people. They wont let them in. And the reason they wont let them in is because they dont know what the hell theyre doing, thats why.
OK? Too bad. Thats why our country has -- from -- hey, maybe theyre a Hillary person? Could that be possible? Probably. I dont think there are too many of them. I dont think there are too many of them anyway. Anyway, they set up a screen in the other room. They set up something outside. But what a -- what a disgraceful situation.
So -- but you people cant be complaining, right? You cant be complaining. All right. So much -- so much to straighten out in this country. This is the kind of -- this kind of think we have in federal government also, by the way, folks. You know? And then you wonder why were going to hell. Thats why were going to hell.
So thought -- you know what it is, its a thought process, right? So I watched last night. I watched Hillary Clinton. What a sad -- what a sad situation. And by the way, theyre going to let some of these people -- I just was informed, theyre going to let some of them meander in. Meander. Too bad but I watched her last night giving a speech that was so average.
And I watched last night as -- the networks said, it was all right, it was good. They were fine. And then I watched this morning. It was unbelievable. It was so wonderful. It wasnt wonderful folks. And then I read a report that just came out, I cant believe it, in Politico -- Politico. I cant believe that.
And they wrote something, all cliches, all just written up by a -- by a script writer. And it was all cliches. You know, they used a little tweet -- one on me -- about tweet. And she said something about the campaign. Donald Trump doesnt know how to campaign, something like that. I just beat 16 people and Im beating her.
You know? I mean, they dont think. Im watching it. Im watching it. Oh, and by the way, this is very important. So the Nielsen ratings just came out. These arent polls. These are for television. Much more important than polls. You know, television, these guys dont care about -- they dont care about polls.
They only care about ratings. And the Nielsen ratings just came out. So its Trump against Clinton. Right? And you know, you heard about how wonderful -- because Ill tell you what, I liked the Republican Convention better. I did. I liked it better. I liked it better. I thought we had a far more beautiful set.
Like not even a contest. How about the first night? They had no American flags up on the stage. Second night, no American flags and then I started saying there are no American flags up there, and then they run up with a flag, right? And then, last night, they put so many flags -- you know its called overkill.
Its called incompetence. They put so many flags up there, you didnt know what to do. You didnt know what to do. But let me just tell you -- so Thursday to Thursday. Thats the big one, right? Thursday. We beat her by millions on television. By millions. Millions. We beat her by a lot. And they both did good.
Really, we beat her by a lot. But, honestly, the numbers were incredible. Which tells you -- which tells you, isnt it good to have Trump running for the Presidency? Now, let me ask you -- so we beat her. We beat her. And I think you tuned in out of curiosity with her. Youve -- most people have viewed her -- I was actually more curious.
I was curious to see whether shed do a class act and not mention my name. Or mention it with respect. Like, say, Id like to congratulate my Republican opponent for having done something that nobody has ever done in the history of politics in this nation. And I would like to congratulate my opponent for having gotten more votes than anybody in the history of the Republican Party, in the primary system.
See, I thought she might do something like that. I thought shed give me a big fat beautiful congratulation. You know, if she did that -- would that would that have been cool? Would that have been -- would that have been great? I thought her daughter did very well, by the way, Chelsea. I thought she did very well.
And my daughter likes Chelsea and Chelsea likes my daughter. What are you going to do? Thats the way it is, right? Thats OK. Thats OK. My daughter likes Chelsea. Ivanka. Ivanka did great, right?  But I asked Ivanka, I said, you like Chelsea? I do, dad. Really? No, I really do. I wish you didnt, itll be a lot easier.
Right? No, but they like -- and Chelsea likes Ivanka. And so I think thats nice. And thats the way life is and thats the way life should be, right? Dont we agree? Its OK. Its OK. But we had -- I -- I had an amazing time and I -- I watched, last night, as different people spoke. Much of it was scripted.
Much of it was scripted. I see some people -- I see some people -- you know what was funny? I said yesterday, at one of the rallies, with these massive rallies -- honestly, much bigger than this. But not much bigger if you let all the other thousands in. But much bigger. This is like an intimate gathering.
Its true. Its true. But I said to -- I said to some of the people, look at that. And then yesterday at the rally I said, boy -- because I had some people up there, that I knew, and I actually saw their names and I said, well thats -- why would they put them up? Theyre going to speak so positively about me. I was wrong.
And I said, oh, Im going to hit them. Im going to get them. Am I going to get them. Im going to start talking about them like you never believed. Im going to hit them. Now, obviously, Im talking about with my verbal. Said, Im going to get them. Im going to let them have it. Maybe a tweet or maybe this or that.
But Im going to hit them hard. So Im going to hit them hard. So on CNN this morning I see, you know on the bottom, Trump says hes going to hit speakers. I mean they are so dishonest. Im gonna hit speakers. Thats why we have to win, right? Thats why we have to win. That -- Ill tell you, CNN is really -- you know they call it the Clinton News Network.
Its really a dishonest group of people. They are terrible. Oh, their camera just went off. You know, I see the red lights. I know -- I know all the cameramen by now, right? Hi fellas. But I see the red lights. That red light just went off so fast. It was funny. And we were having fun yesterday. I said, they said really bad things.
Im going to hit them. Im going to hit them hard. Were going to get them. And I almost -- I -- in fact, I even called up a friend of mine -- a governor called up. He actually called me. He said, youre doing great, fantastic. And I talked about the thing. He said, dont do anything. Dont do anything. Dont say anything bad about anybody.
Dont talk. I told him the story yesterday and then they put, Trump to hit, because somebody said Im gonna hit them. Im going to hit him. I mean verbally. Right? Does everybody under -- headline, Trump threatens, right? I dont know if they said that. But it is really -- Ill tell you, CNN is so dishonest.
Its actually disgusting. You want to know the truth. So -- so I love -- isnt it better when we dont have these teleprompters, right? Right? I watched -- I watched Hillary. No -- no matter where she goes, shes got teleprompters. And I like using teleprompters, theyre really good. But -- but you know, honestly when you do these things, wouldnt it be bad if I -- OK, if Im standing here like this and Im going, ladies and gentlemen of Colorado.
Welcome. Welcome. Oh, lift that teleprompter a little bit, please. Welcome. Wouldnt it be nice if she would actually get up and just talk to the crowd? Itd be real. And she had a speech this morning and theyre reading teleprompters. You know, if she has a group of twelve people, shes got teleprompters in front.
And then she doesnt do news conferences. She hasnt done one in like, what is it? 237 days, something like that. She hasnt done a news conference in something like 237 days. And -- and honestly the reason is you couldnt do a news conference because theyll ask her about all the different things that shes done.
Theyll ask her about the FBI saying shes a liar. Theyll ask her about all of the emails that she deleted or erased or got rid of. 33,000 emails. You know, the ones that were done -- the ones that were done for her yoga class, right? Yoga. Yoga. The ones that were done for the wedding. 33,000. Ive done a lot of weddings and I havent sent -- 33 thou -- I mean, how stupid is everybody.
How stupid are we to hear this. 33,000 emails for the yoga. Yoga and a wedding and they were personal. Ill bet you, in this room we have people that probably -- Im not a big email person. You know why? Im intelligent, I know about email. Im not a big -- I dont like email. You know what I like? I like the old days.
I like the days -- because today they just announce somebody else was hacked and another group was hack -- everybodys being hacked, OK? They have no idea whos doing it. They have no idea whos doing it. These things are amazing. You know, the kids growing up -- I have a young boy, Barron, hes very smart but hes using the computer so much, we put it on lock, right?
No way he can find out. I mean, I dont know what happened. So we go back about an hour later and hes playing with a computer. We had it on lock. And we said, wait a minute, we had it on lock. You needed a sequential number. And we said, Barron, how did you do that? Im not telling you dad. No, these kids are genius, and its getting worse and worse because they live with it. You know, I grew up and it was a certain age they started.
Now they live with it. Its like -- its like their right arm, they can do it so well. And I like the old days, especially for the military, on things like that, right? You want to attack or you want to do something, its called courier. Its called -- lets put it in a think, put it in an envelope and lets hand it to the General.
Lets not send it over the wires so everybodys probably reading it, right? And no matter how good -- no matter how good they say it is, its not -- its -- I mean, people can hack it, I guess. I mean, its just terrible. And you know if you talk about military and you talk about all these secrets and you even talk about politics.
You talk about all of this stuff, its very confidential stuff, and then you find out the hacking is all over the place. I hear China is brutal. They say Russia is excellent and you have guys sitting in their home that are very good. You have people, men and women sitting in their homes and theyre better than the people that are the inventors.
And I dont know, theres something about -- you know General Douglas MacArthur, right? Theyd have a guy come, he says, sir, here it is. Thats it. The risk is from their to their. General George Patton. I guarantee you, General George Patton, who is rough as hell, he wouldnt be doing emails when hes going to be ready to attack.
If he were around, hed say, I dont like that system at all. So --  Thank you darling. I love you. I -- I love you. I love you and I think its a guy. I mean, I dont know. Who the hell cares? Thank you. Oh, no its not. Beautiful. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Now I see you. I like that much better. I appreciate that. So --  Thank you honey. Yeah, I dont know. Hey, the thousands of people on the other side, that the Fire Marshals arent being very nice to, they dont love me so much right now, OK? But thats OK. And were going to come over and see them when this is finished.
Should I do that or should I stay with you longer? Lets go over, right? Well come over. Were going to come over. Were going to come over. So a lot of things happened and I found last night interesting because were going to get a lot of Bernie supporters, I think. And -- and Bernie made a big mistake.
The mistake he made -- and this is the beauty of doing speeches like this because it was late in the night and I saw it, and she was thanking Bernie and talking about Bernie, and hes sitting there like glum. Did you notice that? No smile. His wife pats him in the back and she pulled her hand away. Whoa.
Did you see that? A pat on the back. Darling I love you and pulls it back and she was a little bit concerned there. But he was angry. And then a second time they showed him and he was angry. And you know what, honestly, he made a big mistake because we have the best movement of all. We have far more people than anybody.
We have the most important -- I tell people, Bill OReilly said, the greatest single phenomena hes ever seen in politics. This. US. All of us. All of us. You, you, you, you, you. All the people outside. Man, they had people lined up in the driveway. All the way up. But -- but this is one of the great movements in the history of our country.
Our movement is much better than Bernie. But Ill tell you where Bernie blew it. He sold his soul to the devil. He did. He had a great thing. I was so surprised. Because he seemed like a tough guy. He was like tough, tough, tough, tough. And then in the end he folded. And I said yesterday -- and its true.
He wanted to go home. He wanted to go to sleep, OK? Thats what it -- but you know, had he not folded -- and his people havent folded because his people were angry. Now, just to show you how unfair it is, if that would have happened in the Republican Convention they would have said, catastrophic evening.
People are screaming. Did you see when they had the moment of silence for the police? And by the way, the only reason the police were up on that stage, on the fourth night, was because I was complaining they dont have any police up there, right? They put the police up because they were getting a lot of heat.
But they dont mean it. The difference is I mean it. OK? Were going to be law and order, and I mean it. Were going to be great. Were going to be great. But did you see what happened when they had the moment of silence for the police? Tough situation. Tough situation. Not good. Not good. And then you have Bernie and he makes the deal.
And then they pick a Vice-President thats exactly the opposite of Bernie. OK? He believes in TPP, which is a disaster by the way. Well never approve it. They all approve it. How about where Terry McAuliffe, the governor of Virginia, comes out and said, dont worry Hillary will approve it after the election.
See thats the way it is. And it will take your jobs away almost as bad as NAFTA, which was approved by Bill Clinton, right? NAFTA, a disaster. NAFTA has cleaned out so many states in this country. I -- look New York State. You look at New York State. You look at New England. You look at Pennsylvania. What NAFTA has done to Pennsylvania, where these companies moved to Mexico.
A friend of mine is a builder. He builds plants. Plants. If you told him to build an apartment he wouldnt know where to begin. He builds plants. Big, big plants. One of the biggest. And he --  Maybe Ill use him to build a wall. What a great idea. We got a lot of smart people.
Somebody shouts out let him build a wall. We will. We have smart people. But this guy builds big, big plants. You know, automobile plants and computer technology plants. This is what he builds. He builds plants. One of the biggest. Maybe the biggest. One of the biggest. And he started off building in the United States years ago and hed build plants in the United States.
So I see him the other day and I say, hows it going? Good. Hows business? Unbelievable. I said great. I thought that was good for the United States, right? I said, how many plants are you building? Many. He said, youve got to see whats happening in Mexico. Now, by the way, this guys better than a consultant.
If I hire a consultant, Ill hire some guy that, you know, its terrible, to tell me whats happening, right? Theyll charge you a million bucks. Theyll give you a report in seven months from now. They have to take a long time otherwise they cant charge as much, right? This guy tells me in two minutes.
In one minute, I learned better about whats happening from him, talking to him about hows his business, than I can learn from some phony consultant. Because if he was any good, he would have been the one building the plants, right? You know. So -- so an amazing thing. An amazing thing. So I said, so whats going on? He goes, you got to see Mexico.
Its the eighth wonder of the world. He said, we are building the biggest, the most sophisticated, the most incredible plants all over Mexico. I say, what about the United States? Not so good. Like, who cares? And actually, hed much rather build in the United States, but not so good. He said, not so good.
And I said, what does that mean? He said, well were doing a little work but not much. But Donald, you have to see Mexico. I say, no thanks. But he goes -- he goes -- he goes, what were doing there is incredible. How stupid are we folks? How stupid are we? Our companies are moving to Mexico and other places while crooked Hillary Clinton, whos crooked as a three dollar bill -- while Crooked Hillary Clinton sits there and makes up stories.
Donald Trump didnt do well in his campaign. I said, I just beat 18 people or 17 -- what a -- Donald Trump. No, no it was written by -- all written by -- its what Politico -- I cant believe Im talking about Politico. Because Politico is terrible to me. But Politico wrote all cliches. Not good, OK? But somebody wrote it. She probably didnt notice it. But Im being recognized for having done one of the most legendary campaigns in the history of politics in this country and -- and she puts in her -- her thing right after the tweet.
If somebody tweets he gets upset. I get upset? I dont get upset. I dont get upset. Somebody wrote that. You know, it was a nice little sound bite, right? They just announced I have over 22 million between Twitter and Facebook. Twenty two million people. Thats like -- I dont get upset if somebody tweets, I do what I do. Who cares?
I think -- Ill tell you, I think I have the best temperament, or certainly one of the best temperaments, of anybody thats ever run for the office of President. Ever. Because I have a winning temperament. I know how to win. Because my whole life Ive been winning. My whole life Ive been winning and I think I have one of the best temperament -- Because we have to start winning folks.
We dont win anymore. We cant beat ISIS. We cant be China in trade, and then they go and build this massive fort in the middle of the South China Sea, which theyre not supposed to be doing. They only do it because they dont respect us. So they take our money. They take our jobs they take everything. They sell us the products.
No tax. Come on in. Our manufacturers want to sell to China, they cant get in. And if they ever do get in, they have to pay a tax thats so high or they have to build their plants over there. And they dont even want them to do that. Honestly, a friend of mine, great, he said -- they said, well, we dont want your product.
And then they gave a tax rate -- which I wont even say because its so high nobodys going to believe it. But then they said, build your plant over here but we dont even want you to. We dont even want -- they dont even want us there. OK? Didnt even want us to build -- now Boeing, they ordered 300 jets and they made Boeing build massive plants.
And watch what happens in Seattle and watch what happens in a number of years when those plants are built. Watch what happens in South Carolina, where I love those people in South Carolina. They gave me the biggest victory. Remember, I was supposed to lose. I was supposed to lose. Highly evangelical but the evangelicals love me. Highly evangelical.
I won with evangelicals. Highly military. South Carolina, big military. Colorado, big military. Big military. Big. And I went in --and you watch what they do. South Carolina built big Boeing plants. They have a big, big plant. Beautiful. I love seeing it. I love seeing this stuff. They actually moved part of their operation from Seattle.
Seattle, big plants. So they think its good. New plants, everything good, great people, great labor force but Chinas forcing them to build plants in China. Now, when China devalues its currency and when Boeing, in a number of years, just remember I said it, oh, dont worry if Im president it wont happen.
It wont happen. President. If Im President Boeing will be very happy, believe me. Because it wont -- they may be unhappy that they built the plant in China but theyre not going to have to worry about South Carolina and Seattle. But remember I said it, just in case we dont make it because you people get lazy and dont vote, OK? Colorado is very important.
Very important. So just remember I said it, when that plants finished. When they start operating and when China does a massive devaluation of its currency, and when you go and order your brand new jetliners for all of the different airlines, and when they find out that the planes are going to be made in China, not in South Carolina and not in Seattle, not in this country, because we have people that are incompetent running our country.
When you see that -- and I hope you dont see that because if you see that, that means that I didnt win and that wont be good. That wont be good. So heres the story folks. When you see that, if you see that, itll be a sad day. And I told the Boeing folks. I said to Boeing -- I said, you know, you have a big investment.
What happens if the plant, that theyre being forced to build in China, becomes much more active and you start making all of your planes there? Oh, well, I dont think that will ever happen. Watch. Watch. Were dealing with grand masters of currency manipulation. One of the reasons, among many, that Im against Trans-Pacific Partnership is they dont cover currency manipulation.
And in fact, one of my opponents in politics fought very, very hard that no currency manipulation be mentioned in the documents. This is a U.S. politician. I wont mention the name. I wont -- I should but I wont. The people -- you know, what call Washington, theyll tell you. They didnt want currency manipulation mentioned.
Currency manipulation is the single biggest tool that foreign governments use to beat us, and to destroy our companies and to destroy our trade and to get rich and to rebuild their countries as we suffer. Were like a third world country. We have rotten airports. We have airports -- you go over to Dubai, you go over to places in China, you go over to other places in the Middle East, youll see airports the likes of which youve never seen.
I went to Dubai a number of years ago and they were treating me great. I mean, it was great. Great visit. Unbelievable what -- whats happened there. But they have an airport thats so unbelievable. So the head of the airline is showing me around and its really good. And Im looking at the terminal I say, this is one of the most -- and Im good.
I mean, Im a -- Im a -- Im a really good builder. I build under-budget and ahead of schedule. By the way, I had a meeting with your great newspaper, and I really like the editorial board of that newspaper, OK? You know who Im talking about. These are great people. And they would tell me theres a Veterans Administration hospital that had a one point two billion dollar cost overrun in this area.
No, no. Think of that. Think of this. Im building a hotel in Washington and Im under-budget and ahead of schedule by one year. Think of it. And its peanuts compared to one point two billion -- what is this? Thats just the cost overrun. And this is happening all over the country. When you build a road.
When you build an airport. Some of the richest people in this country are people that cant even read or write. Theyre called friends of mine, contractors. They might not read or write but theyre a lot smarter than the guys coming out of Harvard. I want to tell you, they can take them -- they can take them and wrap them around their finger.
No, I did an editorial board meeting a little while ago. I really like that group. Of course, if they write badly about me, Ill take it back, OK? Well -- well be back here again many times. Youll get -- youll get so sick of me. And Ill tell you -- and Ill tell you then, I just like that group very much.
No, I like them. And smart people. But theyre telling me about a hospital built in the area. You know -- you all know what Im talking about. One point two billion. I said, wow, I thought -- I didnt hear the original one, the cost overrun. I said, wow, thats a lot of money for a hospital. How big is it? They said, no, no, no. Thats not the cost of that, thats just the cost overrun.
Think of what we could do if we had real people running our government, OK? Theres one -- theres one point two billion -- and I have friends. We know how to build ahead of schedule. We build. We build buildings. They come in under budget, they come in -- I have friends, they can do this. If one of the people that I know, some New York killer builder or somebody ,built that building, it would have been up two years ago.
It would have been finished like a year after it started. Its not even a tall building. Thats easy. But -- because it takes longer, to build a tall -- height means length. Remember that, OK? But -- but -- one of my friends, or me -- the thing would have been thrown up so fast and it would have been better.
Better than it is now. Ill tell you a little quick story. I got called before the United Nations. They -- I heard they were building an extension to the United Nations in New York, a number of years ago. And Jeff Sessions is such an amazing man and hes great -- he was the first senator to endorse Donald Trump.
First really major political guy. Hes a very smart guy. But they have -- I built a building across the street like for $320 million. And its a very tall building. Like around 90 stories tall. OK? Thats tall. Much taller than the United Nations. And then it was -- and I built it for, I think it was $325 million dollars, all right?
Condominium. Its called Trump World Tower. Great building. Beautiful. Really -- all glass, its beautiful. Herbert Muschamp of the New York Times, the architectural critic, prior to passing away, gave it a great review. So we built this building and its announced, and I get a call from, I think it was the Swedish Ambassador, but one of the ambassadors.
Very good man. And he said, Mr. Trump, Im with the United Nations. Im the ambassador. Again, I think it was Sweden. It was a while ago. He said, I dont understand something. Were talking about doing an expansion of the United Nations, not a big deal, and its going to cost one point five billion dollars.
I read that your building, which is three times taller or more, cost $325 million. Is that possible or is that a mistake? I said, totally possible Mr. Ambassador. They said, why -- he said to me -- he was good. He was good man but he knew nothing about this business. He said, why is it that that cost so much less than just a simple expansion of the United Nations building?
I said, two reasons, corruption, corruption is number one -- always number. Corruption, number one and incompetence, number two. No, its true. Two reasons. Very simple. So I then get a call and Im brought before the United States Senate to tell the people in the Senate, because you know were funding the United Nations.
Thats another beauty. We fund NATO. We fund Japan. We fund Germany. We fund Saudi Arabia. We fund Saudi Arabia. We pay rent for our base in Saudi -- lets pay rent so we can protect them. Well pay rent. They want more rent so we can protect them, right? So we fund Saudi Arabia. We fund South Korea. We have 28,000 soldiers on the line.
Were real -- were real geniuses Ill tell you. So I get called before the Senate and they wanted to know, and I said, look heres the story. I then go and I meet the head of the United Nations. I think it was Kofi Annan at that time. Kofi Annan. And we sit in these two chairs and Im talking to him. All of a sudden a curtain opens up and there were massive press taking our picture.
Thats all he wanted. He didnt care what the thing cost. And then the curtain closed. I said, OK. So it was, at that time, one point five billion dollars. And they said to me, would you like to meet the man in charge of construction? I said, I would because how can he spend that much money? You know hes going to teach me. Theres no way.
And this guy comes in, who didnt know much. Although he may have known much more than we all think, OK? So I said, what kind of steam are you using? Do you have a boiler plant or are you using New York steam, which is different form of energy. He goes, I dont know. I said, wait a minute. Youre in charge of the new construction of the building, you dont know what kind of steam, you dont know what kind of a plant -- an energy plant youre using.
What are you doing on the curtain wall? Honestly, Mr. Trump -- I said, are you going -- are you emptying the building. or are you going to do it by floor? I dont know. I havent -- I dont -- this guy in charge, OK? So he was either really bad or really corrupt. So that was the end. So I offered to do it for, I think it was like five -- $500 million.
They said -- and it was a billion -- I could save them like a billion dollars. They said, but what will the difference be? I say, Ill tell what the difference would be. Number one, itll be a much higher quality. Number two, well use marble instead of linoleum. And number three, you dont have to move everybody out of the building and then come back two years later or whatever.
And number four, your number is not a billion five. Its gonna be many times that. I was right about everything. That was maybe eight, nine years ago. The building cost a fortune. Somebody got so rich. We pay for so much of the United Nations. And by the way, heres another one. I talk about NATO. So five countries out of 28 pay their way.
The rest of them, no. And the question was asked, if theyre attacked -- if theyre attacked, will the United States come to their rescue? Meaning one of the countries. I said, have they paid? They said, what a horrible question to ask. They go -- this is Hillary Clinton. Dont you know that we have a treaty?
Yes, we do and they have to pay. Right? We have to -- So -- so think of it. We protect them. We protect them. Theyre not protecting us. So we protect them against, originally, the Soviet Union. Now Russia. So we protect them and many of them arent paying or theyre paying a fraction of what theyre supposed to be paying.
So all I say is, Im -- Im fine with NATO. Youve got to make it more flexible for terrorism. OK? Got to make it. Get have people pay. So were paying a fortune for NATO. And usually what the press does is theyll say -- I -- and Im telling you these stories for a different reason. Because our country is broke.
But we have so much fat out there. We could make our country so rich again. We can do things that are unbelievable. So unbelievable. These are just stories. These are just stories. So I was killed on that. I gave a great answer. What do you think of NATO? Its obsolete. I never -- in all fairness I am a business person building buildings and doing things all over the world and Im doing things and built a great company.
I built a great company and -- but Im doing that. Thats what Im doing. So Im like NATO was not high on my list. Does that make sense to you? It wasnt like, gee whiz, let me tell you everything about NATO. But I can learn. Im a really fast learner. In like 10 minutes I know a lot about NATO, right? But he asked me this question just off -- I didnt know hes going to talk about NATO.
What do you think about NATO? I said its obsolete, number one. Number two, it doesnt cover terrorism. Which is true. And then they -- we changed it, right? To cover terrorism. And number three, because I heard this, that many of the countries arent paying or arent carrying their weight. And everybody, the next day, they laughed.
They said, he doesnt know foreign policy. Headlines, Trump wants to abandon NATO. I dont want to abandon NATO. I didnt say that. I didnt say that. Actually, the New York Times was the only one that covered it correctly, which is hard to believe because they never cover anything correctly. But -- but Trump wants to abandon NATO.
Then we had Japan, where we pay more than 50% the cost of their defense. And weve got the maniac pretty close to them, you know, North Korea. And we pay for South Korea. 28,000 soldiers on the line. We pay and we pay for all these countries, right? And Ill never forget. Im talking about Japan. I love Japan.
Japans great. Its a great country. They have great people. I have many friends in Japan. They buy my apartments all the time. They sell us cars. the cars come off like forget it. We send them wheat. Its a fair trade. They get wheat, we get cars. Fair trade. OK. It comes off like -- right, like NASCAR.
Brian France, the great Brian France of NASCAR. So they come off the boats, right? Theyre going 50 miles an hour coming off. Thats Japan. Plenty of money. So a general gets up to speak and he said, Mr. Trump doesnt understand that Japan pays us 50% of the cost of their defense 50%. He was so proud of that.
So I get a call from one of the newspapers. Mr. Trump, General or Colonel or whatever the hell he was, said that Japan is paying for 50%. They actually thought it was good. Do you have a comment? I said, yea. Why arent they paying for 100%? Why? Why? Why? Why? And remember, you have to be prepared to walk.
You have to always be prepared to walk. NATO too, with these countries. Im not -- were not gonna -- this isnt 40, 50 years ago. OK? We end up in World War 3 over a country that nobody ever heard of. Thats a tact. OK? Now, if they live up to their obligations, does that make sense? But some people say, thats a horrible thing to say because of the treaty.
How -- Ill tell you about Japans treaty. So we have a treaty with Japan. If Japan is attacked, we have to go with our full force and might and protect Japan. If the United States is attacked, Japan doesnt have to lift a finger. They dont have to do -- who makes these deals? No, no. Seriously, who makes these deals?
OK? And we have so many -- Folks, I could stand here all day and tell you stories that you wouldnt believe. But heres the story. Im running against a crooked person. Im running against a dishonest person. You know shes dishonest when she talks about like my campaign, when these guys, as much as they cant stand me, say theres never been anything like this campaign.
And shes saying about my campaign, because somebody wrote it and she was too lazy to correct it. Thats all. I mean, its -- thats all. Look, were running against a person that was just accused of being negligent and being other things, and lying. Lying. How do you lie to the FBI and -- I mean, the answer is she lied.
How do you lie to the FBI and now youre running for President? Seriously. How do you lie to the FBI and now youre running for President? How does that happen? Right? You know what? Ive been saying -- Ive been saying, lets just beat her on November 8. But you know what? No, no. You know what? Im starting to agree with you.
Ill tell you. Tired. Tired of saying them. You know, its interesting. Every time I mention her, everyone screams lock her up. Lock her up, lock her up. They keep scream -- and you know what I do? Ive been nice. But after watching that performance last night, such lies. I dont have to be so nice anymore.
Im taking the gloves off, right? Yes? Take the gloves off. Take the gloves -- right? Taking the gloves off. Just remember this, Trump is gonna be no more Mr. Nice Guy. Tell Hillary Im not going to be nice anymore. Ive been very nice to her. So are you ready? Actually, some of the folks I defeated, they probably would say, boy, he was not very nice.
Look, look. Let me just tell you. She is a disaster. She talks now change, right? Oh, by the way -- and you saw yesterday. So Ive been talking -- we got to renegotiate NAFTA. The worst trade deal ever made in the history of our country, probably in the history of the world, OK? You know, theyve just empty.
So did you see what she said? Im getting criticized -- this is for months. And now yesterday she said, we have to start thinking about renegotiating our trade deal. She never said that. She never said that. She never said that. And by the way, shes never going to do it because shes controlled by the special interests.
So I spent close to $60 million on my campaign and I put up my own money on the primaries. Now Im spending a lot of money on this but Im also raising money, and by the way, for this vote -- thats going to the Republican Party and the RNC. Republican National Committee. Reince Priebus is doing a fantastic job.
But Im putting up a lot of money, too, for the general election. And Last month -- last month they said, Mr. Trump, would you put up two million dollars as a match? I said, yeah, OK. Fine. Turned out to be three point eight. I say, what the hell happened? I said -- I said, how much is it? I think its three point eight.
I dont even know what -- I dont care what it is because it doesnt matter to me. I just want to win. We got to win this election. But Im putting up a lot of money for the general. Were raising -- and Ill tell you the beautiful thing. Were raising money at $61, I think, it averaged in June. And we only started toward the middle of the month.
In June, we raised $27 million in small donations. That doesnt happen to a Republican. So I dont know what number you call. Republican Party -- goes to the Republican Party. Goes to the RNC. I dont know what number you call. Why should I know a thing like that? Find out and send them some money, will you please?
Find out. But Im putting up a lot of money and were doing great. And I see these ads that are running against me. Theyre vicious. Theyre vicious. And theyre false. You know, the crazy ad with Megan Kelly. Where they say, blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of wherever. Wherever. I was talking about her nose.
Maybe her ears. But you know what I wanted to do? And does this make sense? What I wanted to do is I want to get back on to the question of taxes or economics. I said, whatever. And all of a sudden whatever because these are sick people. But, really, it was nose. With the reporter, I am -- I spent so much money on working with the disabled and making my -- my buildings accessible.
Millions and millions of dollars. So they have me imitating a reporter because I said that people were dancing in the streets or dancing on the rooftops or something when the World Trade Center was knocked down, right? And a lot of people disputed that. Now, all over the world they were. A lot of people.
A lot of reports. But pretty sad thing, right? You got the World Trade Center, thousands of people jumping out of that building and getting killed, and you have people that are happy about it, right? So I said, dancing, rooftop, street. Whatever. And we couldnt find too much stuff confirming what I said.
All of a sudden somebody comes up with an article. OK? And the article is written by this guy who said he met me many, many years ago. And the article is a great article for me because it talked about dancing, all the thing. So I said, heres an article. I think he was with the Washington Post when he wrote the article.
Something. Times, Washington Post but whatever. And he wrote this article and it was great. I said, heres the article and it really shut a lot of people up. You know, it was -- it was really sort of pretty much on point. Not 100% but pretty much on point. It was an article. But it was an article written by a major newspaper and the author of the article was this guy.
And they started calling him, the press. You remember this whole thing? Does everybody remember? They started calling him. The press started calling, and theyre driving him like -- theyre calling him a lot. And obviously the other side of things started calling him also, saying this article is not good because this sort of confirming what Trump is saying.
They were dancing. They were happy that the World Trade Center was -- this is not good. So all of a sudden the guy -- and I think by that time the article was almost 15 years old. He starts changing the article, that he made a mistake. He this, he that. I didnt know what he looked like. I didnt know that he was disabled.
I didnt know it. I didnt know it at all. I had no idea. So I started imitating somebody. I didnt speak to the guy. Somebody that was groveling. Does everybody know what grovel is? Gravel is when you do -- I wont do the act because theyll do a whole big thing. I wont. But at the time I did the act. I did the whole thing with groveling.
And I said hes groveling. He said, no, no. The article, I was wrong on the article. And I was doing a whole big number, right? I was wrong. I promise you I made a mistake when I wrote the article. He was groveling. Grovel, grovel, grovel, right? That was the end of it. All of a sudden I get reports that I was imitating a reporter that was handicapped.
I would never do that. I would never do that. Its not in my vocabulary. And I spent millions of dollars -- so its crooked media. I spent millions. So now -- and I figured that was fine, because I would never do that. But then the guy that wrote the article -- who by the way changed the article. He said he made a mistake and all this stuff right.
Grovel. He said, but Donald Trump knows me. Oh really? I know. He met me when I was with -- I wont even mention the name of the newspaper. One of the worst papers in the world. I was used with a different paper. Real -- its going out of business very soon anyway. Its so good. But let me tell you, he met me when I was with another newspaper.
I think he said in 1988. OK? So now were talking about -- it was, I guess, 2016. Were talking 2015. You know, whenever this took place, 2015. So I met him many years ago. And I met him more than once he said. You know how many reporters I meet. Id meet guys -- look at those guys. I meet guys -- I meet so many reporters.
I meet them, they -- they -- to quote somebody, theyre coming out of my years, OK? I meet so many reporters. So they do a commercial, crooked Hillary. And she knew that story. So they do the commercial like Im mocking a person with disability. Im not. Im not. And by the way I did -- I certainly did. I have a very good memory.
I dont remember this guy. I wouldnt remember. I dont remember reporters that -- I see them on the phones. I see them all over the place. Theyre all over the place. Reporters. But I -- Im supposed to remember some guy -- listen to this. Im supposed to remember some guy from 1988. So heres the story.
So they do a commercial, Hillary. Do you see? With the beautiful little children watching. As Im supposedly mocking a person with disabilities. And I spend millions a year or millions of dollars on ramps and get rid of the stairs and different kinds of elevators. All over. And Im going to mock -- I would never do that.
Number one, I have a good heart. Number two, Im a smart person. OK? And crooked Hillary Clinton -- and crooked, dishonest Hillary Clinton -- and she knows that. And crooked Hillary puts that up and talks about, anybody that would mock the disabled. I didnt make the disabled, number one. Number two, with Meghan, all I did was I wanted to get back on subject.
I said because -- I wouldnt say she exactly likes me. Do we agree? So I said, there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out -- and then I said, I just want to get back on subject. Lets go back and talk about taxes. So I said, oh, wherever. So they said -- because theyre deviants. Deviants. They said that blood coming out of her.
And now they do a commercial. Its really sad. They know its not true. They do it anyway. I had in mind the nose but it could have even been ears. I didnt think of the other alternative. I didnt think. So, you know, its the first time Ive really told that story -- those two stories to a group. Did you enjoy that?
This is not off a speech. Did you enjoy it? Ok. So -- so just to finish up. Look our country -- and these sort of great stories because they tell you about how dishonest it is out there. They tell you about the incompetence. Like a Fire Marshal not allowing those people, that are in a room, to come into this room where we have a little.
It just tells you its a disgusting thing. But it tells you about honesty. It tells you about common sense. It tells you that our country has a great future. Think if we were in the hole as deep as we are and everything was running perfectly, right? I always like to buy a business thats in terrible shape.
Because if you buy a business thats in great shape you have nothing to do. You cant cut. We have so many things we can do. So our country doesnt win anymore but were going to start winning again folks, OK? Were going to start winning. Were going to stop the Syrian migrants from coming into the United States.
We dont know where they come from. We dont know who they are. And you look all over the world. You look at Paris. You look at what just happened with the priest. A beloved priest. You look at whats going on all over the world. We know nothing about them. Well build safe zones. Ill get the Saudis and the Gulf states to build safe zones.
We will run it but theyll put up the money. Theyve got plenty of money. Other peoples money. You ever hear -- the OPM. Other peoples money. And were going to be so smart. Were going to be the smart people. If Hillary Clinton gets in, its gonna be four more years of Obama, and nobody wants four more years of Obama.
Nobody. Well be weak on ISIS. Well be weak on the borders. Well be weak on our military. Were going to rebuild that military folks. Were going to get it. Were not going to be using old aircraft. So I just want to tell you -- I just want to tell you that Im going to be in Colorado a lot because -- because theres no way we shouldnt win this state.
These are great people. Heavy military, tremendous respect for their police and law and order. Thats me. At the same time, we want to treat everybody fairly. I mean, when things happen, we want to make sure everybody does a great job. We want to make sure people -- but we want law and order. We want great military.
We want our vets to be so happy. These are great people. And -- and Im going to come back and Im going to spend time with you, and youre going to say, oh, this guys back again. Hes driving us crazy. Mr. Trump, on November 8, we promise. Were going to vote for you. Please, but give us a break. Youve been here enough.
