Donald Trump|Interview: Donald Trump Calls In to Fox and Friends for An Interview|October 11, 2018
Thank you, Ainsley. Good morning.
Well, its going to go fast. Were going to make it go fast. We are following it in. You know, its just about gone from the certain areas. One thing we had that was to our advantage was the speed. This thing was in and out. But weve never seen power like that. I was getting reports all night. I mean, the level of power, people have not seen: the 170-, 180-mile-an-hour winds -- at one point, it reached almost 200 miles an hour.
So we havent seen that before. And I guess you have two or three cases where maybe there might have been slightly stronger wind. But this is in history. So it was tremendously powerful, but it really, it was a speedster. It was in and it was out. And now its in Georgia, and I spoke to the governor, and they are handling it very well.
But, you know, the winds are down to 60 miles an hour...
...which is still a lot, but 60 miles an hour. Its dissipating. But it was fast.
Well, I think, really, when I explained it, there was no heat. I really had very little heat, other than the natural haters, of which there are obviously some. But, you know, we had thousands of people standing on line. Its a great thing thats happening. Its a great movement in our country. I go make a speech in a 12,000-seat auditorium, and people start lining up two days early.
I mean, literally, they bring tents. And, you know, we had thousands of people lined up by the time I had to make a decision. So my decision was, do I want to tell people that were waiting 10 and 12 hours already that Im not coming? And I just thought it would be -- and were talking about thousands of people.
And you saw that last night, when the auditorium, which held about 12,000 people, it was full, and we had 20- or 25,000 people outside watching screens. And, you know, when they get there that early -- and, you know, that area, obviously, is not affected at all by it -- and we had it under great control, because FEMA and everything else, we had White House, we had on the plane, on Air Force One.
Yeah, I was totally monitoring. So I went in, made the speech. Everybody was happy. Otherwise, it would have been really unfair to all of the people that were waiting. And -- and were talking about thousands and thousands of people.
It would have been very unfair. So I dont think, really the heat was very hot.
Relative to other things, I think it was very minor.
Right.
Well, Brian, youre probably seeing -- I have a lot of African-American support, and a lot has developed over the last little while with Kanye coming out, and Jim Browns been there for a long time. I mean, Ive known him. Ive respected him. He was -- you know, truly, can you imagine him playing in the NFL today, what hed be making?
I guess youd double -- double what anyone else is getting. He was the greatest. And he came out a long time ago for me, when it was much less fashionable, frankly. And now you see the results. We have the lowest -- if you look at unemployment, if you look at any statistic, lowest unemployment rate for African-Americans in history -- in history.
The highest median income...
...income, think of it, highest in history for African-Americans. Now, that includes, also, separately, Asian-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, we have the best unemployment numbers, the best median income numbers. Crime rates in those communities where you have a really bad, bad number -- for years, youve had terrible numbers.
Those crime rates are coming down. In Chicago, which is run by Democrats, we -- I said just yesterday, I said, "Were going to get involved in Chicago." Its ridiculous, whats happening in Chicago. Theres no reason for it. So were going to get involved, and well try and work with the mayor...
...if thats possible. I dont think he wants anybodys involvement, but well give it a shot.
Hes going to be gone, but we have to do something, because its .
Well, whats happening is Jim is really -- he gets it. He very, very much gets it. And I get it. There are people in jail for really long terms who have -- like Mrs. Johnson, as an example. She had another 22 years to serve. She was in there for 20 years. Shes -- shes the most incredible woman. How this would have happened -- and maybe it was a different time, a different age.
But we do need reform. And that doesnt mean easy. Were going to make certain categories tougher, when it comes to drug dealing and other things. But there has to be a...
...a reform, because its very unfair right now. Its very unfair to African-Americans. Its very unfair to everybody, and its also very costly. You know, some of the -- if you look what theyve done in Texas, theyve done a great job. Now, Texas is thought of as being a tough state -- and also Georgia, Governor Deal.
They have done -- those two states, theyve done an incredible job with -- theyre tough...
...theyre firm, but they really have done a...
...a tremendous job with reform. And so were looking at that with big Jim Brown, who is a -- an amazing guy. But I have a tremendous amount of support with African-American great athletes. You look at Evander Holyfield, you look at -- I -- I could -- Herschel Walker. I have so many athletes and -- and stars that are supporting me, because when they look at the unemployment rate, which is the best ever, when they look at the income that African-Americans are making under Trump compared to what theyre -- you know, were talking about two years ago.
Its so much different. So its -- its really -- its really been pretty amazing.
Right, right.
Right.
Well, Ill tell you, first of all, I like him a lot. Hes been a friend of mine. Ive known him for a long time. Hes a very different kind of a guy. I say that in positive way, but he is a different kind of a guy. Those that are in the music business say hes a genius, and thats OK with me, because as far as Im concerned, he is. I will say this: When Kanye came out very strongly a number of months ago, something happened.
My polls went up, like, 25 percent. Nobodys ever seen it like -- hes got a big following in the African-American community, a big, big following. And I think he has in a lot of communities. But the polls went through the roof, and I have not seen that -- I think Ive -- I can honestly say Ive never seen that before, to that extent.
So he is respected, and hes really a great guy. You know what he wants? Hes not asking for anything for himself, hes not saying, "Hey, gee, I want to do this or that." Hes a private guy and he wants to help people, and I think maybe most -- more than anything is prison reform. Because his wife, who is terrific, Kim, she is the one that brought the attention to Mrs.
Johnson where I could look. And you have many people like Mrs. Johnson that are in jail for another 35 years on a charge that, frankly -- everything serious, but, you know, you dont get life imprisonment because youre talking over a telephone about something .
Well, if he doesnt, then he gets overruled by me. Because I make the decision, he doesnt.
Well, I could see it. I mean, you know, I could see it. I went to Indiana and we took Bobby Knight, and that was a big deal in Indiana you have Bobby Knight. And we won Indiana by many, many, many points. And, you know, you have -- I think I might have won it anyway, but when you have Bobby Knight in Indiana -- I have Kanye, I have just -- we have such tremendous support from so many people.
And Ill tell you what. Those people in Hollywood that you hear about, even the ones that do a little talking because they think its cool, they vote for Trump -- many of them vote for Trump. Ive heard so many of them vote for Trump. They get in that booth, they look around and then they press the Trump -- they press the Trump sticker, because they -- they do. And, you know, sort of -- its, sort of, a joke out in Hollywood.
I have many -- obviously, I have many friends out there, many Hollywood friends, but I have many friends. Theyre saying that so many of the people that you see talking about me -- maybe its fashionable and maybe its not fashionable, but they vote for me. So they get in that booth and theyre different -- and they see that with my polling.
A lot of people, they dont want to talk about it, they get in and they vote for Trump.
Yes, I am.
He better be careful what hes wishing for, that I can tell you. He better be careful for what hes wishing for.
Thats a disgusting statement for him to make. For him to make a statement like that is a very dangerous statement. You know, they talk about us. We are exactly opposite. You know, the rallies where they send people -- I heard somebody yesterday, on your show actually, talking about my rallies. And my rallies are really calm and well-run and -- and packed with people.
We dont have problems at our rallies. But they used to send in -- they dont do it anymore. They havent. They probably -- maybe they will try starting again. But they used to send in protesters, paid protesters.
The Democrats and Soros and they came from all over. And wed have protesters. And I would say this, that it wasnt so successful for those protesters. But they have to be careful with the rhetoric, because its very dangerous what Holder says. And Holder was held in contempt by Congress, Holder went after Christians, he went after our great evangelicals, he went after the Tea Party people.
You know that. They just settled -- the IRS just settled that case. Holder is -- hes got some problems and I dont see him running. And if he did run, I think hed get gobbled up before he ever gets to the election itself. I think the primaries would gobble him up.
Well, so far I like every one of them. I just hope they stay healthy and I hope they fight it out. And any one of them Id like. I mean, I just hope that we dont get any star or good thinker coming out of nowhere, because I see everyone thats talking about it, you look at Booker, you look at Biden -- I mean, how about Elizabeth Warren?
She faked her heritage for years and used that; she cant prove anything. She said her mother told her she had high cheekbones therefore shes got Indian blood. You know what? I have more Indian blood in me than she does, and I have none. Unfortunately, but I have none. So you have Elizabeth Warren. Every one of them -- Cory Booker ran Newark, New Jersey, when he was mayor, into the ground.
But I dont want to be too harsh because I want them to be able to get through the process.
Any one of them -- Bernie, I have to give it to Bernie, hes in there fighting. Hes in there fighting. He still hasnt realized he got killed by Hillary. He got unfairly cheated by crooked Hillary. But what happened to Bernie Sanders its amazing, hes got -- he acted like nothing happened. What happened to him was a disgrace.
But Bernies in there pitching. I saw him the other night. I said to my wife, "Look at that guy. Look at that guy. Hes out there flailing and fighting." And then the announcer looked at him -- the person hosting the show looked at him and said, "You know hes winning, dont you?" And Bernie just sat there; it was sort of funny.
But no, any one of those names I like. I like -- I dont see a name that I dont like. Look were doing great. Were setting records with the economy. Were setting records with unemployment. New jobs are the highest theyve ever been. We have more people working in the United States today than at any time in the history of our country, and by a substantial number.
So with everything were doing, I dont know, you know, why wouldnt I do well in the election?
Well, let me just tell you that Bernie, the problem with Bernies plan is that youd have to pay four times the taxes that youre paying right now. And one of the problems you would have is essentially...
Well, hes probably OK with it but nobody else is. Youd have no money left. I mean, youd have to -- you would go -- everybody would go out of business. You wouldnt be able to do it. But maybe as importantly, I dont think more importantly but as importantly, you go and you look at countries where they essentially have single-payer tax care -- single-payer health care, if you look at it, theyre a disaster.
They come to our country when they need operations. They come to our country when they need help, assuming they have the money to do that. The -- the level of service is so bad. I mean, essentially the government runs it. You could take a look at what we did at the V.A. Now I have choice, where youre allowed -- if you have wait in line for 20 days, or if you have to -- I mean, some of these people are waiting 32 and 40 days to see a doctor.
What happens is, now under V.A. Choice, theyre able to go out, get a private doctor. We pay the bill. The vets are so happy with what weve done.
Well, if you look at Bernies plan, its a catastrophe because basically its government-run.
The government cant run anything; theyve proven that.
Health care would be a disaster.
Well, I actually get along well with Rod. We have a witch-hunt going on, which is disgraceful. And I have to tell you, Ill take these Republican guys, with Mark Meadows and Jim Jordan and Gates and Gibbs, and all of them. I -- I hate to mention a few names because theres some of them and I want to give every one of them credit.
These are tough, smart guys. They know there was no collusion. It turned out with Russia there was collusion, but it was with Hillary Clinton, the DNC. I mean, why didnt, as an example, the FBI take the DNC server? They didnt take it.
I dont even think they know where it is. I mean, there are so many questions. But one thing Ill say: These Republican folks -- I think theyre becoming folk heroes -- these are great, great people. And they want to get to the bottom of it. And, you know, were going to...
...I was surprised at that.
Actually, I was surprised at that. I would think he would. He mentioned certain things to me that, you know, are very positive about that event and I would imagine that youd want to put that down. And frankly, whether you were under oath or not shouldnt matter.
But he mentioned things to me that I would think would be fine for him to testify. And so, you know, when Congress calls -- so, I would -- Im a little surprised that Rod wouldnt do it. I have a good relationship with Rod because we work on a lot of other things.
Well, Andy McCabe is a bad...
...guy. And Comey is a bad guy. Dont forget, Comey is a very bad guy. This country got very lucky when I fired him. And as you know, Rod wrote a big memo about how horrible -- if you read that memo -- how horrible Comey is. And he was a horrible guy. And he lied, and he leaked. He lied before Congress, but he was leaking all over the place, not only through his professor.
You know, his professor friend who took his stuff and leaked whatever he wanted to do. You know, Comey was a bad guy. But McCabe, very bad, but he worked for Comey. Remember one thing about McCabe, his wife was running for office and he got $750,000 from Hillary Clintons -- essentially, PAC. It was run by Terry McAuliffe, who is absolutely Hillary Clintons -- absolutely Hillary Clintons best friend -- and Bill Clinton.
They gave him $750,000 for his wife. Nobody even knows if she spent the money. She might not have spent the money. And this was at the time that she was being investigated by McCabe. So McCabe is investigating Hillary Clinton and they -- her PAC, essentially, run by her best friend, is paying McCabe $750,000; to me, thats a big deal.
Nobody ever mentions it. Its really a -- you -- look, weve got a hornets nest. I think Ive done a great service to this country because Ive exposed so much. When you look at the e-mails between the two lovers, Strzok and Lisa Page, and you say the, "insurance policy" -- where theyre -- theyre so wanting win against Trump -- but then in a moment of silence they said, well, if that doesnt work out we have an insurance policy.
Well, the insurance policy is what has gone on for the last fairly long period of time. There was tremendous corruption. And Ill tell you what; these people want to get to the bottom of it. And I dont think people like Devin Nunes -- you -- you -- he should get -- if this all turns out like everyone thinks it will, Devin Nunes should get the Medal of Honor.
He -- he is really, what hes gone through, and his bravery -- he should get a -- a very important medal. Maybe well call it the Medal of Freedom because we actually give them. Theyre high awards for civilians. And hes -- hes done amazing. And you know, guys like Meadows and -- and -- and Jim Jordan, all of these people, what they -- what they go through, and theyre right.
And they cant understand why theyre being stymied at so many different levels. But now its coming out and its really sad. I did a great service for this country when I fired Comey. He was a bad guy, with bad intentions. And you look at the way...
...he handled -- and the one thing -- just to finish up on that, you know, the Democrats hated Comey more than any human being. He actually did Hillary Clinton a big favor because she should be in jail. But he should -- they shouldve taken her right off the campaign, but he -- so he did her a big favor.
But the Democrats hated Comey; hated him. And I said, the one thing is, when I fired him I said I was going to get bipartisan support. And you look at Schumer and all of those people they put out horrible statements about Comey. He should be fired.
Hes a disgrace. The minute he was fired, they came out and they said he was a wonderful man.
I said I cant believe it -- I cant believe you did that. Look at...
...what they said the day after he was fired; it was like from a different planet. So you know, look, theyre politicians. What could I tell you?
Well, I think it was more true. But you have to understand, I was in Washington probably 17 times in my life. I came to Washington on the 18th time and I said, darling, can you believe it? Im president. I didnt know people in Washington. And now, I know everybody. I know some that I wish I didnt know, but I know a lot of people.
And I think, now, were really -- you look at what -- Nikki Haley, as an example, did a great job, a really great job. But shes going to be replaced by somebody thats fantastic, I know. And we have five people -- we really have seven -- but five people that want it...
...so bad.
Well, I can only tell you that theyre really outstanding. I mean, theyre top -- top of the line. And we have great people, right now, working. Are there some that Im not in love with? Yes. And well weed them out slowly, but surely. But when you look at what we did with Mexico, with Canada, with South Korea, you look at what we did with North Korea where that was going into a war and now, as you know, the relationship is good -- Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, theres one.
Hes been fantastic. That was a change, and hes been fantastic. Hes a star. But he just got back from North Korea. So you look at what weve done. That was going to be a war, and now we have, actually, a good relationship.
No missiles, no testing...
...nuclear testing. No nothing. So, you know, weve -- weve covered a lot. I say, and I say it often, that we -- me -- weve done more in less than 20 years than any president in the history of our country. Tax cuts, regulation cuts, all of the things weve done -- judges. By the way, I have two Supreme Court judges already.
And Justice Kavanaugh will be fantastic. But you top that with...
...you -- you take a look at who we have, Justice Gorsuch, Justice Kavanaugh, and many -- many other judges. So weve done more, I think, than anybody and I dont even think its close.
Well, were looking at it very, very seriously. I dont like it at all. Now, you know, you dont have American citizens, but that, in this case, doesnt matter. I dont like it. I dont like it with respect to reporters. Its a terrible, terrible precedent. We cant let it happen. And were being very tough.
And we have investigators over there. And were working with Turkey. And, frankly, were working with Saudi Arabia. We want to find out what happened. He went in and it doesnt look like he came out. It certainly doesnt look hes around.
But he went in and he...
I would say theyre excellent. Ive told them theyve got to pay for their military. You know, Saudi Arabia has a -- its a very rich country. And for years and years -- there would be no Saudi Arabia if there wasnt the United States, because we protected them. And we dont get paid for this protection.
We should be paid. We spend billions and billions of dollars a year protecting Saudi Arabia. And Ive told the king, King Salman -- I said, "King, sorry. You got to pay." And Ive said that loud and clear. And theyre going to be pay. Theyre going to pay...
...tens of billions of dollars.
No. And you cant be.
Youre right.
I have to -- I have to find out what happened. I mean, I do have to find out.
And were probably getting closer than you might think. But I have to find out what happened.
Well, it would be a very sad thing. And we will probably know in the very future. We have some incredible people, and incredible talent working on it. We dont like it. I dont like it. No good.
Well, Ive got so many people saying, "I wish you were running. Id be out there voting." You know, "Im not going to do it now because youre not running." I said, "Do me a favor: Do it. Just go out and vote." Thats what Im telling my rallies, "Go out and vote." Because historically the -- whoever wins the presidency, as you know better than anybody, they dont do well in midterms.
I think this is different. The economy is the best its ever been, ever. I mean, this is the strongest economy weve ever had. And we talked about jobs before. Its the best. And I really think people are going to go out. Plus, I really think that Justice Kavanaugh, the way he was treated, so horribly -- this is a fine man -- what they did to him and his family, the Democrats -- I dont think people are going to forget that so quickly.
And were talking about, really, a very short period of time...
...before the midterms. I think were going to do very well. I can tell you there are Senate races that we werent even going to contest, that were actually leading in. I could mention names. I wont. Eh, maybe Ill mention one or two. Heidi, Heidi was going to be -- you know, win and...
Well, we have a -- a -- we have a man -- North Dakota. We have a man who is fantastic. And we asked him to run. The most popular -- hes just a -- a great -- great person...
Kevin is -- is just a great person. Hes running and hes up, like, 13 points.
Now, the people have to still get out and vote. You have to get out and vote. But -- Ill tell you what -- and on many of the Senate races, races that we didnt think we had a chance, were going to at least do very well, and in many cases I think were going to win.
The other thing is with the House, we have -- we have many races that people are going to call wrong. With that being said, whats going to happen? I dont know. But I really think the Republicans are very energized; much more so now than two or three weeks ago.
Well, I really think they have it naturally. I really do. And Ive always felt that. Even before Justice Kavanaugh, if -- if you look at over the last month or two months, I didnt believe the polls, because I think they have tremendous energy. I think the Republicans have tremendous energy. They want to keep 401s really good.
You know, theyre up 40, 50 percent in 401s. Theyve never had it. People are coming up to me saying, "My wife is saying Im a great investor. Thank you very much," right?  You know, they want to keep that.
Well, if the Democrats -- well, thats fine. You know, the Federal Reserve is getting a little bit too cute, thats all. Thats ridiculous what theyre doing. But the Democrats, you look at what they would do to it. They would knock it down, youd -- instead of being up 50 percent, youd be down 50 percent.
When I took over this economy, this economy was ready to crash. We were at 1 percent GDP. Now were at 4.2 percent. It was ready to crash. It was the worst -- if you look from depression -- from the Great Depression, it was the worst recovery in the history of our country. And Obama threw tremendous money at it. Dont forget, Obama was playing with zero money, so he was playing with funny money.
He was -- it was very easy. Im paying interest at a high rate because of our Fed, and Id like our Fed not to be so aggressive, because I think theyre making a big mistake. But Im -- Im playing with, you know, with money that we pay interest. Now, that -- that is good for people that have money in the bank and theyre now able to get interest on their money for the first time in a long time.
And its good in certain ways. But theyre making a mistake; theyre being too aggressive.
Well, sure, but you stop them economically. Look, China was taking out $500 billion a year. $500 billion, Brian, a year. I said, "Its not going to happen any longer." And I didnt go initially because they have helped us. And I believe theyre continuing to help us with North Korea, because 93 percent of the -- the stuff goes through China to get into North Korea, you know, through their border.
China has been quite good. They could be better I must say, but theyve been quite good with respect to North Korea and what were doing in North Korea. Which is amazing, by the way, according to everybody. So with China, I said, "You cant do this. You cannot continue to take this money out." This should have been taken care of by President Obama, President Bush.
You -- should have been taking care of by many other presidents. They let China get out of control, and we are not going to pay $500 billion a year to China and rebuild China. We have helped rebuild China more than any other factor. We have helped rebuild it. I said, "Its over." So theyre not happy. They cant be happy about it. But same thing happened with the European Union.
I told them the same thing. They dont take our product, and yet they send their Mercedes-Benzs and their BMW in to -- BMWs in to see us. Its not going to happen. But with China -- because thats the big one, thats the real big one -- theyre taking out $500 billion, and now I put $250 billion worth of taxes or tariffs on China, and its had a big impact.
And if you look at...
...if you look at their wealth, if you look at their economy now, its a whole different ball game. Their economys gone down very substantially. And I have a lot more to do if I want to do it. I dont want to do it, but they have to come to the table. I will tell you this -- and Ive said it -- actually I said it last night to Shannon -- I will tell you that they want to negotiate.
They want to negotiate badly. But I told them, "Youre not ready yet. Youre not ready yet." They lived too well for too long and, frankly, I guess they think that the Americans are stupid people. Americans are not stupid people. We were led badly when it came to trade. And that includes with Mexico, which we have solved, it includes with Canada, it includes with everybody.
And one by one, were knocking them off. And wait til you see what happens. And thats one of the reasons we have such potential in our country, because we were -- we were doing this with these horrible trade deals. And, frankly, with horrible military deals, where we protect wealthy countries like Japan and Saudi Arabia and South Korea and they dont pay us, its ridiculous.
I mean, were protecting the world and they dont pay us.
And when that changes -- when that changes, wait til you see what happens with our country. Its a different world.
The wall is being built, but its being built in chunks that I dont like. Im not happy with it. Were getting $1.6 billion and weve got two of them and now were getting a third under this budget. And after a lot of people -- and theyre friends of mine. They dont want to do anything before the election because they think were going to do well.
But right after the election were doing something very strong on the wall. The only thing the Democrats are good with their bad policy, their bad everything -- in many ways theyre bad politicians. The only thing theyre good at is obstruction and delay. And they -- the one thing that -- you know, we got -- we fixed our military, $700 billion for the military.
They dont want to give us the wall. They fight in unison. They dont -- because they think thats a good political thing. The truth is thats good for our country. We need the wall, because we have people coming in. Now, weve done a great job considering we dont have a wall. We need the wall. Thats another tool of success and we need the wall.
And its happening.
Thats right.
Well, I never talk about that, but I can tell you Matt Whitakers a great guy. I mean, I know Matt Whitaker. But I never talk about conversations that I had. But, you know, The Washington Post gets it wrong a lot. Thats the only thing I can say.
Im not doing anything. I want to get the elections over with. Well see what happens. Im very disappointed that we go through this witch hunt -- this ridiculous witch hunt. And now even Richard Burr, whos the highly respected senator in charge of the Senate Intelligence Committee, he just came out he said, "No, theres been no collusion." He sees absolutely -- this is after spending a year and a half on this stuff.
Theres no collusion. Devin Nunes came out, theres been no collusion, from the committee in the House. Kevin -- Devin said no -- and they came out with a very strong report: No collusion. There is no collusion. Theres no collusion. There is collusion with Hillary Clinton and the Russians. But theres no collusion with the Republicans and theres certainly no collusion with Donald Trump.
And everyone knows it. And they ought to get it over with and they ought to save a lot of money and a lot of time.
Well, it seems ridiculous that Id have to do it when everybody says theres no collusion. But Ill do what is necessary to get it over with. Theyve spent tens of millions of dollars doing this, and its a disgrace. And on top of that you have committees in -- in the House -- in the Senate and the House, you take a look at what theyve done.
Theyve done -- theyve interviewed everybody that you can imagine you could interview. And then Richard Burr stands up a few days ago and says, "We found absolutely no collusion." And its no different, there is no collusion. But it should end because its bad for the country. And when you talk division in the country, its bad for the country.
Its very bad. It hurts us with other countries.
Well, I -- look, I think that were going to be successful. I see the spirit that the Republicans have and I really believe were going to be successful. In Pennsylvania, they redistricted certain areas, which was really unfair, in my opinion, Really unfair. But I think there were going to do well. I think state-wise I do very well in all of these places that were talking about.
But its not about me right now, its about individual races. I see things happening that are very good. I think well be successful. And if were not, if we lose the majority in the House, which is always a possibility, we will probably just have to fight it out. And its shame. It would be a shame, because wed be wasting a lot of time.
But well just have to fight it out, because there are a lot of haters and theyre just absolute haters. Now, can we get along? Maybe. And theres a possibility. They want infrastructure, I want infrastructure; theres something that can bring us together. We have a lot of things were there is commonality and its possible that well even get along.
But, you know, yesterday they were talking about impeaching Judge Kavanaugh. How do you impeach him? Hes, like, this incredible person that every -- it turned out to be such false, horrible charges, what they did. And they want to impeach him? Thats just terrible.
So, there is a chance -- there is a chance that well get along and get along well. We have a lot of things, like infrastructure, that they want and that I want.
Well, its certainly -- you know, Ill tell you what: Ill bet you it cost -- you know, I see these people say, "Oh Trump gets rich being president." Ill bet you Ive lost billions of dollars, its cost me billions -- I said to one of my friends, a very wealthy friend, I said, "You know, Ill bet you it cost me $2 billion or $3 billion.
And its worth every penny of it. I dont need the money and its worth every penny because Im doing so much for the country. I mean, what Ive done in terms of costs, what Ive done in terms of the military. Were rebuilding the military. Very shortly were going to have the strongest military we ever had.
Yes, its -- its nasty, its vicious, its incredible, the false reporting is so incredible. But honestly, Im doing a great job and thats why I have these crowds. These crowds arent showing up if I dont do a good job. They see the difference when they pick up $2,000 or $3,000 more from taxes, all of a sudden out of nowhere theyre getting $2,000, thats a lot of money to people.
I mean, thats a tremendous amount of money.
So, yeah, it -- it is worth it. Now, a lot of people ask me that question: Is it all worth it? It really is worth it, because, you know, look, Ive done a great job. If I didnt do a great job, I would have said, "Wow, that was a mistake." But Ive done a great job and were -- were really set to do other incredible things that people said could never be done.
Yeah. Yeah.
Well, let me tell you about leaks. I think a lot of the leaks are not leaks; theyre made up by the newspapers. The media is very dishonest with -- of course, "Fox & Friends" is excluded, OK?  But the -- I wont exclude Fox totally, but I will exclude "Fox & Friends." No, the media is very, very dishonest; beyond anything that anybody can understand.
Now, even the letter written to the Times, there is a chance -- I dont say its a big chance, but there is a very good chance -- that that was written by the Times. And if it wasnt, it would be a low-level -- you know, thousands of people qualified for that heading. And the Times said, "We did scrutiny and we found out who this person was." Well, that means its not a major player, because they know all the players, they know who they are.
But I wouldnt be that surprised, because the Times is totally corrupt and dishonest. I wouldnt be that surprised what they write is so -- forget it. Every day I have articles, every single day. You know, over the years I appeared on the front page of the New York Times probably four, five, six times in my entire life.
Now, if I have, like, less than three or four stories on the front page Im saying, "Geez, I guess they didnt have much to write about." But the Times is, to me, very, very dishonest, extraordinarily dishonest. If people only knew.
No, no. No, look, how do you do that? I would like to. I would like to go in there and Id like to find out who it is. It could have been the New York Times wrote it, to be honest. Theyre a very dishonest paper. It could have been the New York Times. Probably wasnt, but it could have been the New York Times that wrote it.
Well, and they say "sources," Ainsley. "Sources say," "five sources within the White House say," and there are no sources. They make it up. Theyre like novelists. There are no sources. And one of the things I have done, is Ive educated the public as to the dishonesty of the fake news media. I mean -- and you have a big percentage of the media that -- that is that way.
You also have some incredible people, I will say. You have some incredible people in your profession, but you have some really bad people and its fake news. Its a terrible, terrible thing. And they say "sources" and people think, "Oh gee, sources," and there are no sources. Some of these books that are written, they dont have sources for those quotes.
They make them up. They will literally make up a quote and say its a source and its disgusting. Frankly, I would love to see...
The Bob Woodward book -- now, in all fairness, I never got to speak to him.
It could have been.
And I very good to both of them -- you know, I was very good to both of them. And it could have been, a lot of people have said that. You know, Gary Cohn -- and I could tell stories about him like you wouldnt believe. Gary Cohn could have been. Although he issued a statement that, you know, gee, he has great respect for the administration, et cetera, et cetera.
But what does that mean? It could very well have been. Dont forget, Gary Cohn never thought we could ever make this deal with Mexico and never thought in a million years we could make the deal with Canada. He thought -- one of the reasons he left, he never thought we could make those deals. And we not only made the deals, we made phenomenal deals.
All you have to do is ask Canada, how happy are they? So you just -- its pretty amazing what weve done. But these sources are -- theyre phony. I mean, in many cases they dont exist. The media is very dishonest.
OK. Good, Im glad -- Im glad its Ainsley. Give me a nice one.
Oh, wow.
And your fathers name is what?
And is he in South Carolina?
Well, thats a great place. So, Wayne, I just want to say youve done a fantastic job with Ainsley. I want to congratulate you. That is not easy. But she is a terrific human being and just a great person. Happy birthday and great job. Great work.
Oh no. Oh no. We could do this for 10 minutes. Dont worry about it. Say hello, Ainsley. Thats very nice.
Thank you, Brian. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Your show is a fantastic show, just keep it going.
Thank you very much.
