Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Lebanon, Ohio|October 12, 2018
Whoa, whoa.  I love Ohio. Its great to be back in Ohio. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. This is a truly great state with thousands of hard-working, wonderful, beautiful American patriots. Beautiful. Under Republican leadership, America is being respected again. And all of those thousands of people that arent under the shell that is standing out there, look at you.
Look at you. Theyre getting very wet. Thank you. Thank you, all. Thank you. There are thousands of people that cant see a thing. In other words, youre better at real estate than they are, but thats OK. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Im really proud to report that earlier today we secured the release of Pastor Andrew Brunson from Turkey.
He is now free from jail and he is in the air, heading to Germany, where hell get off for a brief check, and I think hes going to be in great shape. And then hes coming to Washington, D.C., tomorrow, and well say hello to him. Went through a lot, you know? All about Pastor Brunson. He went through a lot, but hes on his way back.
Weve done that with a lot, right? Weve had a lot of success. North Korea, Egypt, remember? We bring a lot of people back, and thats good. They want to come back to our country, and theyre coming back to our country. Tonight, every American heart is with our fellow citizens affected by Hurricane Michael.
Sounds like a very nice name. That was a vicious hurricane. Whether its in Florida or Georgia or Alabama, North Carolina, South Carolina, a lot of areas affected, but we just want to give everybody our love. That was a devastating power that hit -- among the most powerful hurricanes ever to hit our country.
It was devastating. But theyll rebuild. Theyre strong. Theyre great people. And just God bless you all. Thank you. My administration has been in constant communication with the state and local authorities all over the various states. When were in trouble, we pull together, we pull together like nobody.
Were here tonight to discuss the extraordinary achievements that weve made together in -- can you believe it -- less than two years? Its been Republican leadership and we are here to make sure that our amazing progress continues full speed ahead. Because America is booming. America is thriving. And America is winning, really winning again.
And we are viewing now for the first time in many decades a phenomenon called so simply America first. And its about time. Its about time. Right? About time. Its about time. The unemployment rate has just fallen to the lowest level in more than 50 years. Manufacturing confidence just announced has reached an all-time high.
Think what that matters. Think what that is, confidence, confidence. The people of Ohio have confidence. Can tell you that. No, but think of it. If you remember the previous administration said manufacturing jobs... Other than that, you like them very much, right? But remember, they said manufacturing jobs, theyre gone, theyre dead.
Remember the expression, youd need a magic wand to bring them -- bring them back? Were bringing them back. I guess we have the magic wand. Theyre coming back. And theyre coming back from Mexico, theyre coming back from Canada, theyre coming back from everywhere, because they all want to be where the action is. They all want to be in the USA.
Thats where we want to be. Thats where the jobs are. We are now the hottest country anywhere in the world. All across...  By the way, I wish the cameras would get this crowd. This crowd is incredible. Look at the cameras back there. Its like the Academy Awards. Look at this. How would you like to have to do this every night?
No, no, how would you like to have to do this every night? And one little mistake, one little mistake and they try to destroy your entire career. Boy. No, I mean, look at this. Seriously, look at -- look at the magnitude of it. Look at the number of the media back there. Look at that. Fake news. Fake news.
Fake. You go back and theyll say, did he say -- did he say this? Or that? Or this? Thats OK. You know what, weve learned how to live with them. Weve learned how to live with them. We dont like it, but weve learned. All across Ohio, steel mills are reopening, and we are putting our coal miners back to work.
One of the things were most proud of - look, steel was dead. Steel was dead. I came into office, steel was a dead business. Now theyre opening up plans, U.S. Steel, Nucor. Theyre opening up plants all over the country, big ones, new ones. Were taxing the hell out of the dumpers. You know, you had the dumpers that were hurting your steel industry?
And you know what happens? After the industry dies -- would have died within two years. After it dies, they would come in and they would charge you three times more money. Nobody says it, but thats what happens. So were going to have beautiful new American-made steel... Its not going to be mud or its not going to be sand steel.
You know they put garbage in this stuff they were dumping. We dont even know whats in it. Its going to be U.S. steel. Its going to be American steel. Were going to get the iron ore from our mines, right, beautiful. Theyre opening up again. Our mines are opening up again. Metallurgic coal, but our miners are back to work.
We dont need outsiders telling us about our steel industry. Its incredible. Seriously, its incredible whats happened. Its hot as a pistol. After years of rebuilding foreign nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation, which is what we want. And this has been...  So this has been a really historic week for America.
Really historic. And by the way, our magnificent first lady, Melania... just returned from an incredibly successful trip to Africa. It was an incredible trip. And she came back, and she told me so beautiful, so beautiful, and yet such incredible in some cases poverty. They need help. They definitely need help.
Its both beautiful and sad. Its got every kind of emotion. But you probably saw her travels. They were really incredible. And it opens your eyes to whats going on around the world. Youre all very lucky in Ohio. That I can tell you. That I can tell you. Thank you. And on Monday night in the East Room of the White House, we achieved a tremendous victory for our nation, our freedom, and our Constitution.
America watched as we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Did he get treated badly and unfairly or what? Horrible. And Ill tell you what. Hes done us a tremendous service, what -- the way they treated him, Ive never seen anybody treated like that.
But hes done us a great service, because we are more energized as Republicans that ever -- I think ever before. I think ever before. We just got poll numbers for some of the Senate races. And you look at some of these Senate races where we werent even going to contest. Its a Democrat thats in. We were figuring in -- you know, were winning with candidates that are -- were winning.
Were beating people that we werent going to contest. So its been amazing. Because people realize how important the Supreme Court is. And we could have two, three, maybe even four more choices, and we have to be able to get the votes to put them through. Go out and vote November 6th. From the moment Brett Kavanaugh was announced, an angry Democrat mob was on a mission to resist, obstruct, delay, demolish, and destroy him.
And before they even know -- Ill tell you, you saw it. Before they knew his name, they were saying horrible things. They didnt even know who was going to be the pick. He wasnt picked. I didnt know who was going to be the pick. And they were saying horrible, horrible things. These are bad people. We cant let this happen to our country.
Republicans believe in the rule of law, not the rule of the mob. Thats what it is. Its a mob. The people of Ohio can save America from radical Democrats. Theyve become radicalized. I mean, Pocahontas, Elizabeth Warren, seriously... No, no, seriously, shes becoming mainstream. You believe that one? We have to elect a Republican House and a Republican Senate.
We need the votes. We need the votes. And, by the way, for the people of Ohio, early voting starts right now. You got to get out. Vote early. And then anybody that votes early, you can leave. The hell with you. Thats -- you know, I worked in Cincinnati, Ohio, two summers. I loved Ohio. I loved Ohio. I shouldnt tell you this, but I used to travel a lot to Kentucky.
Does anybody travel to Kentucky? Right? No, I -- I like Kentucky. But I traveled to Kentucky when I spent a lot of time in the Queen City. I love the Queen City. We had a job, Swifton Village, Swifton. Does anyone ever hear of Swifton? And it was a great experience. It was a successful experience. I did it with my father, one of my earliest things that Ive done, and I guess its sort of like if you get your first up as a hit, youre a hitter, you hit, you sink the 10-foot putt on the first hole.
But we had a great success in Ohio, and Ive never forgotten it. And then they said -- remember, for months before the election, you cannot win without getting the great state of Ohio. Right? And I got the great state of Ohio. And I love the great state of Ohio. We got it. We got it. Remember? They used to say that every time.
I used to hear it. I have fantastic people in Ohio that did a job for me. Bob Paduchik, wheres Bob? I had just a great group of people. They did incredible work. But they constantly would say on these phony networks, you cannot win unless you win the great state of Ohio. And then they started doing polls, and I was way up. And I think we won it by 9 or 10 points.
A lot. We won it by a lot. In fact, you know the way, if its close, they have to take hours and hours and hours, right? So with Ohio, Ill never forget, they said the polls have closed in Ohio. Donald Trump has won the state of Ohio. Crazy. We won Ohio by so much that it took one second before they called it, OK? We won by a lot.
Its a great place. And by the way, have I produced? Look at whats coming into Ohio now. Have we produced? I produced and you produced. If Nancy Pelosi and the Democrats... take control, they will try to raise your taxes, impose socialism on this country, take away your health care, and take away your jobs.
We have more people working now than ever before. They want to take away -- thats what will happen. The Democrats want to erase Americas borders and let drugs, gangs and crime pour into our country. In fact, Ive been going around lately saying the Democrats are the party of crime. And nobody even challenges me, not even the fake news media.
They dont even challenge me. Republicans are the party of safety and Republicans are the party of jobs, jobs, jobs. And thats whats happened. And were honored to be joined tonight by many terrific Ohio Republicans, including Republican Party Chair -- I have to say, this woman is incredible, because, you know, I got dropped just before the election by the head of the Republican Party.
Ive never been dropped in my life. And a woman came in who is a very successful person with a great family. And she took that thing over. What a job shes done. Her name is Jane Timken, and she is very special. Wheres Jane? Shes incredible. Thank you very much. And a man who said, oh, youre going to win, youre going to win, and I said, well, how do you know?
So I had five people to choose from to head up my campaign in Ohio. And one name, I dont know, I liked the name, I liked the sound of it, his name was Bob Paduchik. Why do I like that name? Why? Its not outstanding. But he came in and he did a job, and I had the support of the people, but not the support of a lot of others.
And he just said, youre going to win. And every time I called him up and say, you know, this happened, that happened, he said, thats OK, youre going to win by more. This guys the most positive guy. So I want to thank Bob Paduchik. So good that we moved him over to the RNC, but, Bob, in about a year from now, get ready.
Youre coming back here. Thank you, Bob. And we have a friend of mine whos an incredibly respected man in the United States Senate. When he speaks, we all listen, including the president. He really is. Hes a great, great guy. Hes loved in Ohio. Senator Rob Portman. Where is he? Thank you. Hes a respected guy.
Thank you, Rob. Congressman Warren Davidson and Congressman Brad Wenstrup, thank you. Thank you, fellas. Great job. So many things we passed in Congress. Those two guys were there with us. Thank you very much. What a job theyve done. Were also joined by your next lieutenant governor Jon Husted. Jon, thank you.
Thank you, Jon. And I hear youre up a little bit, Jon. Weve got to get that over, because youre going against a very bad guy. Ill tell you, hes a bad guy. And everybody -- Ill tell you, Jon is with a friend of mine, and they decided to get together, which is very smart. Instead of going like this to each other, they got together, and Jon is running with your next governor, Mike DeWine... And Mike and Jon are running against Elizabeth Warrens far-left disciple, Richard Cordray.
Jon, am I allowed to say some bad things about Cordray? Because let me tell you, he did such a bad job at the agency that he ran. It was terrible. He was hurting people. And I think he enjoyed it. No, really. I really believe he enjoyed it. He was putting people out of business. They werent loaning money to the people that they were supposed to. It was terrible.
Cordray spent $250 million federal dollars trying to renovate a headquarters, his agency, that they didnt even own, more than twice what the entire building was worth. They didnt own it. And then it became a big scandal. But because it was a Democrat, the fake news didnt want to write about it. Then after spending like $50 million on some elevators, it turned out that they didnt work.
If Cordray were ever -- and Ill tell you what, this is a Pocahontas dream to get this guy elected.  I cant believe -- you know, I know Ohio pretty well, right? Ive done a lot for the steel industry. More than anybodys done in many, many -- I mean, you speak to U.S. Steel, theyll tell you.
A lot for the miners, a lot for everybody. This guy does not belong in the state, folks. OK? First of all, hes a super liberal. Why do you do that? Why do you do that -- is he -- OK, go with DeWine, please. And Jon. Cordray would be an absolute disaster for Ohio. He doesnt know what the hell hes doing.
I couldnt wait to get him out. We tried so hard. You know, you had one of these deals that you couldnt get him out. But we tried so hard. And theyve done such a great job since we got him out. He was bad. You dont need him in Ohio. Now, Im thrilled to introduce the next United States senator from Ohio, Jim Renacci, whos a great guy and a great friend of mine.
Jim, come up. Come up. Come. This is a good man. Nothings easy about politics, but Ill tell you what, hes in there fighting, and just get out and vote for him. He is a good, good friend of mine and a good man.
Thank you, Mr. President. Its an honor to stand here with you tonight, like I stood with you 31 months ago when you were candidate Trump, and I told you I am with you. I told you I voted for you. I told you my wife voted for you, my family voted for you, my friends voted for you. Because we needed you to change Washington, and you havent let me down.
Look, this crowd loves you. Ohio loves you. And we love what youre doing! Youve got the Ohio economy growing. Unemployment is down. Wages are up. The tax cut and jobs bill is working in Ohio. You have two Supreme Court judges confirmed and more circuit judges confirmed than any other president. Youve repealed the individual mandate that was hurting so many individuals here in Ohio, renegotiated NAFTA, helping Ohio business, passed right to try.
ISIS is on the run. And you have given our coal miners here in Ohio hope by reversing those devastating policies of the prior administration that had vowed to bankrupt that industry. Promises kept -- promises made, promises kept. Look, Mr. President, we are not tired of winning here in Ohio. And yet youve been able to do all that with no help from Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown.
He has fought you every turn, voting against the tax bill, voting against coal miners, voting against your judges confirmations. You asked for help, and thats why I jumped in this race seven months ago. And I am here to help, just like Ohio, everyone here is here to help. Sherrod Brown votes 96 percent of the time with Chuck Schumer and 94 percent of the time with Elizabeth Warren.
Yet he voted 100 percent of the time with President Obamas judge appointments. He supported Hillary Clinton for president.  And -- and even though -- and even though you are ripping up those trade agreements that arent working for Ohio, Senator Brown had the gall just a month ago to say the only thing President Trump has done for trade policy is run his mouth and line his pockets.
Thats the type of guy who is not helping this president. Sherrod Brown is the fourth most liberal senator in the country. Thats not Ohio. Thats not even close to the average American. He votes like a Hollywood liberal, and he has received the most lobbyist money in the Senate, more than any other senator, he has received the most lobbyist dollars.
Look, its time we send Sherrod Brown packing. And its time we send me to Washington. Someone thats willing to help this president...  In 25 days... In 25 days, in just 25 days, we need to retire Sherrod Brown. We need a red wave. We need a red -- not only a red wave -- and I said this earlier.
Mr. President, Ohio is going to deliver a red tsunami. Thank you for what youre doing, Mr. President. And thank you for what youve done for Ohio. Thank you.
Thank you. Thanks, Jim. It is true. Sherrod Browns never voting for us. He didnt vote for anything that we want. Yet I hear he goes around -- he does the best commercials. In fact, I just want to think, is he a Republican? Hes doing these commercials that he likes Donald Trump. Hell never vote for us. He didnt vote for Justice Kavanaugh.
He didnt vote for tax cuts. He doesnt vote for us, folks. I mean, it might be nice for him to say he agrees with my economic policy when hes never going to vote for it. So youre just kidding yourself. He voted yes on amnesty for illegal aliens. He voted yes on deadly sanctuary cities. We started building the wall, and weve made progress, but he voted against it.  So illegal immigration takes American lives, American jobs, and American taxpayer dollars.
A border wall, which is moving faster than anybody would believe... is truly a life-saving barrier against deadly floods of drugs, crime, smugglers, traffickers, cartels. Our brave border agents want a wall. They need a wall. Its happening. Its moving. We have made so much progress. We will finish the wall.
If you want more jobs and less crime, if you want to stop Schumer from running the Senate... we need the vote of Jim Renacci. We do. Jim is a good person. Hes a great guy. We need his vote! You know they say we have a majority. But if somebody has a cold, they cant come in, we dont have a majority anymore.
We got to get people. Weve got to get some Republicans so we can vote. Finally, its my privilege to introduce a tremendous Ohio Republican. Were here for him tonight. A great friend of mine, hes fought so hard for everything weve done. Hes a true fighter for the state, Congressman Steve Chabot. Great guy.
Come up, Steve. Come up, Steve.
Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. President. And God bless Warren County! All right, yeah, all right. And God bless Hamilton County, too. I have Hamilton County. And Butler County, as well, and the Kentuckians. Oh, God bless you all. And God bless President Trump! Thank you. And I never knew Id say this.
But God bless Kanye West! Hey, you know -- you know how many liberals it takes to screw in a light bulb? None, because theyd prefer to stay in the dark, so...  Let me just -- let me just say, I got like a -- I got about a six-page speech here. I decided the more Steve Chabot you get, the less President Trump youre going to get, so Im not going to give this speech.
God bless you all, and God bless the President Trump!
Thank you, Steve. So just remember, a vote for Steve Chabot is a vote to protect your family, your jobs, and your country. Now, Steves winning. Nice poll numbers. But dont take any chances. Get out and vote, please, OK? No chances. We dont want to hear about any upsets. Hes a great, great guy. If you want to stop the radical Democrats, if you want to stop Nancy Pelosi from becoming speaker -- can you believe it -- and you have to get out and vote for Steve.
Also at stake in this election is Medicare. Democrats have signed up for a socialist takeover of American health care that would utterly destroy Medicare and Rob our seniors of the benefits they paid into their entire lives. Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and theyve paid for it. And the Democrats want radical socialism, and they want open borders where everybody pours into our country.
Its what they want. I dont get it, but thats what they want. Does anybody want that? Open borders. The new platform of the Democrat Party is to abolish ICE. Think of that. Ill tell you what, the incredible men and women of ICE are not treated properly. Theyre not treated properly. They do an incredible job.
The Democrats want to turn America into a giant sanctuary city for criminal aliens, MS-13 killers, and anybody else that wants to come in. Were not going to have it. Were not going to have it. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. This election is about safety and is about prosperity.
Since the election, which is incredible. If I would have said this, Ive been to Ohio so many times, been to every part of Ohio. The people are great. But if I would have said this, the fake news would have said, how dare he say that. Since the election, weve created over 4.2 million new jobs... and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps.
Big deal. Thats a big deal. Weve added nearly 600,000 brand-new beautiful manufacturing jobs. Right? African-American unemployment has reached its lowest level in the history of our country. And African-American poverty has reached its lowest rate ever, lowest rate ever. My -- thats a big number, right?
How do they beat that number? How does anybody beat that number? Were going to have these people come in. For over 100 years, theyve claimed and theyve wanted and theyve said -- theyve lied to African-Americans. Remember my statement, what do you have to lose? Guess what? They all believe it now. What do you have to lose?
Theyre doing -- we are doing great as a country. But Im so proud -- I am so proud of the kind of numbers youre hearing. My administration is fighting every day to deliver safety, opportunity, and justice for everybody, for everybody. Were asking as an example all African-American voters to honor us with their support this November.
Get away from the Democrats. Get away from the Democrats. Theyve done nothing. Theyve done nothing. Think of it. We have the best numbers in history on employment and unemployment and median income and many other things. And I think were going to get the African-American vote. And its true. Kanye West, what he did was pretty amazing yesterday.
Pretty amazing. And you know who else was with him? A guy you know well, big Jim Brown. Big Jim. What do you think Big Jim would be making today in the NFL? He was unstoppable, right? Unstoppable Jim Brown. He was a great football player and is an even greater man. Hes great. Hispanic-Americans and Asian-Americans likewise have the lowest unemployment in the history of our country.
And women unemployment just fell to 3.6 percent, which is soon to be changed to historic levels, but right now, Im sorry, its the lowest in 65 years, OK? Sorry! Sorry, women! I let the women down. The only reason to vote Democrat is if youre tired of winning, right? Tired of winning. Last week, I announced that we are replacing the horrendous NAFTA -- NAFTA was a disaster, folks -- NAFTA was a disaster -- with the incredible, brand-new, U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement, the USMCA.
Its opening up Canada, opening up Mexico for our farmers, our -- everybody. Weve taken the toughest ever action to crack down on Chinas unfair trade actions and trade abuses. And thanks to our tariff, and especially on steel thats been dumped all over this country, the Ohio steel industry and the U.S. steel industry is roaring back to life and soon will be hitting its most successful years ever.
Very serious. And you see it. You see it all over this state. Under Republican leadership, we passed the biggest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. And by the way, Sherrod Brown voted against them. We reduced high-dose opioid prescriptions by 16 percent during my first year and now theyre dropping much lower than that.
And Ill soon sign into the law the largest legislative effort in history to address the opioid crisis where just this year we got $6 billion from Congress -- thanks to Rob Portman and a lot of others -- thank you, Rob -- but Rob and so many others helped. Very little Democrat support. We also passed veterans choice, the V.A. Giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor and the landmark V.A. accountability law to ensure anyone who mistreats our veterans, who we couldnt fire, we couldnt do anything about it, we now look at them and say, Jim, youre fired.
Out. Get out. True. True. We secured $700 billion and $716 billion for the second year to fully rebuild the American military, which had to happen. We needed it. And much less importantly, when it comes to the military, every bit of equipment is being built in the USA. Thats the only place where jobs are secondary.
Number one, we needed the equipment. But its all being built here. We make the greatest military equipment in the world. At my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American armed forces called the Space Force. Very important. Very important. Thats very important. Hate to say it, but very soon, thats where its going to be at. Its going to be space, everything, defense, offense, everything.
And we have tremendous support from Rob and the Senate. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal, and look what happened to Iran. You know, when I took office, Iran was all over the place. They were taking over Syria. They were taking over Yemen. They were taking over everything.
I actually said, this is going to be a problem, and weve got to do something. And about four months ago, we withdrew from that horrible, ridiculous deal. And you take a look whats happening to Iran. Theres riots all over the streets, all over the cities. Its a whole different ballgame. Its a whole different country.
And its looking real good. Looking real good. And we have recognized the capital of Israel and reopened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Together, weve made unbelievable progress, and were just getting started. We have so many other things. If you vote to elect Republican House, Republican Senate, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut your regulations, and raise your incomes very, very substantially.
We will protect Medicare and we will protect your Social Security. The Democrats cannot do it. We will continue to confirm judges who interpret the Constitution as written. We will fully secure the border. We will pass case law, crack down on sanctuary cities, end the visa lottery and chain migration, defend the ballot box for American citizens, and throw vicious MS-13 gangs the hell out of our country, like were doing right now.
You know, I say it to people, MS-13 gang, vicious, horrible people. Were throwing them out of here by the thousands. But you know whos doing it? Do we love law enforcement or what? But you know whos... But ICE, in Long Island, where I sort of grew up -- I was right next to these areas. I know them so well.
You had towns that were practically taken over by MS-13. And ICE goes in like its a day in the office. And theyre tougher and smarter that these wise guys. And they start throwing them in the paddy wagon, throwing them in, get the hell out of here. And you know what? The towns are liberated. The people are clapping from windows.
The people are clapping all over the streets. These towns, like a country that was invaded and taken over and then was liberated. These towns are being liberated of the MS-13 garbage that came into our country. Under the previous administration, by the way. And they came in by the tens of thousands -- well, we have set every record on getting them out.
And I want to tell you, theres nothing that gives me more pleasure. And for all of the companies that are moving back in to the United States, we will finally have a merit-based system of immigration. Not just lump -- not a lottery, pick them out of a hat. Who the hell are they? Who is he? Pick them out of a hat.
Were letting people come in on merit, where they can help you, where they can help these companies grow. Right now, we have a system, lottery, a lottery. Think of it, lottery. Oh, pick em, I wonder? What people do you think these countries are putting in? Do you think theyre putting in their finest? I dont think so. I dont think so. So were going to end it. Were going to have a merit-based system.
Bring them in through merit. Were lifting millions of people from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and poverty to prosperity. And you see that happening. But to achieve this, you have to get out November 6th or vote early and vote Republican. We need the votes. We have to have those votes. For years and years, youve watched as your leaders apologized for America.
They apologized for America. Now you finally have a president who is standing up for America.  I have to tell you, I wish these fakers back there, the fake news, I wish theyd turn the cameras and show behind them, show outside these walls. Look at the people out there. Its amazing.
Look, they never turn the cameras. I go home, I say to my wife, how did the crowd look? They only show your face. They never move the camera. But you know what? She can tell by the sound, because... True. She can tell by the sound, because, you know, if you have, like, lets say, one of the normal presidents walk in. Weve had a lot of normals.
And some great ones. Youd have, what, 300 people show up. But you can tell by the sound, because 300 people cannot make the sound of thousands and thousands and tens of thousands like that. They cant do it. So even though they refuse -- you know, normally Id like it, but I dont. They dont want to move the camera.
The only ones that become famous are about six people right behind me.  They dont have the best seat in the house, but theyre going to become the famous ones. No, but, honestly, you know, I know what stadiums sound like, and this sounds like on television were in the middle of an Ohio State football game.
Its what it sounds like. Its what it sounds like. And speaking of Ohio State -- theyre not doing too badly, are they, huh? Great coach. You have a great coach, great guy. Great guy. Were standing up for your values. Were standing up for Ohio. And we are proudly standing up for our national anthem. But to continue our momentum, I need you to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and vote Republican, vote early or on November 6th, vote Republican.
Vote for Steve Chabot, Jim Renacci. Vote for DeWine. We need DeWine. We got to have DeWine. Where the hell is Jon? Are you over there, Jon? Hes still here. Hell never leave. You got to vote. We need a governor here -- you cannot let this happen to Ohio. This Democrat is a disaster. A proven disaster. Vote DeWine.
Hes a good man, and a good man, too. Youve got two good men. A vote for a Republican Congress is a vote for more jobs, more wealth, more products made right now in the USA, which is what were all about. Its a vote to respect our borders, respect our Constitution, and respect the heroes of law enforcement.
Thank you, law enforcement. And a vote for Republicans is a vote to reject the Democrat politics of hatred, anger, and division. Youve seen that. You just saw it with a high-quality, highest quality, this incredible man. You saw it. Brett Kavanaugh, you saw it, what they did to him and his family. And his young, beautiful daughters.
Right? Da Nang Dick, Da Nang Dick, how about Da Nang? Da Nang Dick. Cory Booker, he ran Newark into the ground. Senator Dianne Feinstein, how about that? How about that? Seriously.  Who think that Dianne Feinstein leaked the papers? Who thinks... She was very unprepared for that question.
No, I didnt -- she was very unprepared, right? Very unprepared. Dianne Feinstein. You know, what they did to this man, he will go down along with Justice Gorsuch -- and, by the way, how good is Clarence Thomas? How good? How good? Hes going to go down as one of your greats. Its up to the people in this incredible -- I dont know if you call it a room.
I dont know what the hell it is. All I know -- is this a room or a roof? I think its a roof. Whatever it is, there are a lot of people. But its up to you, folks. You have the power with your vote to defend your family, your country, your values, your faith, and to defend your dignity. So we had the greatest movement in the history of our country.
We really did. We really did. You know, they can say what they want, but nobody even challenges it. You know, Ill say that a lot. And usually, if theres, like, a 2 percent variation, the fake news will hit me the next day. Trump exaggerated or something. Actually, weve under-exaggerated, because weve produced more than I ever promised during the campaign.
More. But we had the greatest -- but look at the -- look at this. Look at this group. We had the greatest -- and we never -- by the way, I hate to disappoint you, but we went to Mississippi, we went to Missouri, we went to Nevada, we went to -- every place, and we have crowds, we have tens of thousands of people outside of every arena.
They have to start building larger arenas in this country, right? Something is happening. And I saw this in the election. Wed go -- Ill never forget -- we went to Michigan, final stop. I got there 1 oclock in the morning. There was actually Election Day, 1 oclock in the morning. There were 32,000 people.
I see some people there, they were there. It was unbelievable, 32,000 people. I started speaking at 1 oclock in the morning. I got home at 4 oclock in the morning. And I said, you know, we had 32,000. Crooked Hillary had, like, 500. And I said, why arent we going to win the great state of Michigan? And guess what?
We did. We did. And it hadnt been won in decades by a Republican. And now they like me even more. You know why? Because car companies are moving plants back in. And just so you dont feel too lonely, theyre moving the plants back into Ohio also. A lot of them. Loyal citizens like you helped build this country.
And together we are taking back our country. Were returning the power back to the incredible American people. Ohio is the state that gave us a great president who hasnt been properly recognized, OK? William McKinley has not been properly recognized. What he did in terms of trade, in terms of war, but in terms of trade -- and I hate to say, in terms of being smart in tariffs, William McKinley has not been properly recognized.
But maybe someday he will. It also gave you a general, who was incredible. He drank a little bit too much. You know who Im talking about, right? So Robert E. Lee was a great general. And Abraham Lincoln developed a phobia. He couldnt beat Robert E. Lee. He was going crazy. I dont know if you know this story.
But Robert E. Lee was winning battle after battle after battle. And Abraham Lincoln came home, he said, I cant beat Robert E. Lee. And he had all of these generals. They look great. They were the top of their class at West Point. They were the greatest people. There was only one problem. They didnt how the hell to win.
They didnt know how to fight. They didnt know how. And one day, it was looking really bad. And Lincoln just said, you -- hardly knew his name -- and they said, dont take him. Hes got a drinking problem. And Lincoln said, I dont care what problem he has, you guys arent winning. And his name was Grant.
General Grant. And he went in and he knocked the hell out of everyone. And you know the story. They said to Lincoln, you cant use him anymore. Hes an alcoholic. And Lincoln said, I dont care if hes an alcoholic. Frankly, give me six or seven more just like him. He started to win. Grant really did. He had a serious problem.
Serious drinking problem. But, man, was he a good general. And hes finally being recognized as a great general. But Lincoln had almost developed a phobia, because he was having a hard time with a true great fighter and a great general, Robert E. Lee. But Grant figured it out, and Grant is a great general, and Grant came from right here.
Ulysses S. Grant. Ohio is the state that gave us the Wright Brothers. It gave us Neil Armstrong. Hes the man that planted the flag -- think of that -- on the face of the moon. Whos that? Who are they -- a relative of -- oh, thats nice. They werent worried about not planting a flag, right? You know them.
He planted that flag, that American flag right on the face of the moon. There was no kneeling. There was no nothing. There was no games. There was no games. Boom. Wrong, right? Right, fellas? My military guys up here. Of course, my -- excuse me. Excuse me. My military folks all over this arena. And how do you like the fact that the V.A. now has choice, right?
I said it. But, you know, I skip over it. For 44 years, theyve been trying to get choice, and we got it done. That means instead of waiting for 10 days or 5 days or 22 days or 33 days, or 2 months, our great veterans, some of them would be fine, just not feeling so good by the time they saw the doctor. It took so long, they would have a terminal illness.
Thats how bad it was. And I got done what theyd been trying to do for 44 years, I think. Forty-four years. Now when they have to wait, they go out, they get the services of a good private doctor, we pay the bill, and theyre all better, and thats nice. Forty-four years. It took 44 years to get that done.
Im just saying that because I see these great military guys. Thats pretty much appreciated, fellas, right? Thats a big difference. Its a big difference. Made a lot of people very happy. Probably cost us less money. I dont care about that in this case. I care about taking care of our veterans. Its about time.
Generations of Ohio workers farm the fields, poured the incredible steel, fought the battles that made America into the most powerful and prosperous nation in the history of the world. We lost our way. But now weve gained our way back again, bigger and better and stronger than ever before. These courageous Ohio patriots did not shed their blood, sweat and tears so that we could sit at home while others tried to erase their legacy and destroy our proud American heritage.
We didnt do that. For the sake of our freedom and for the sake of our children, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win. Thats all were going to do is win. We will not bend. We will not break. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down.
We will never surrender. And we will always fight on to victory. Because we are Americans. And our hearts bleed red, white, and blue. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.
