Donald Trump|CBS: Interview with Donald Trump on 60 Minutes|November 13, 2016
Thank you.
Thank you.
Well, I really felt we were doing well. I was on a string of about 21 straight days of speeches, sometimes many a day and the last two days I really -- I really had a pretty wild time. I did six speeches and then I did seven and --
I know, I did my final speech in Michigan at 1:00 in the morning and we had 31,000 people, many people outside of the arena. And I felt -- when I left, I said, "How are we gonna lose?" We set it up a day before. And we had all of these people. And it was literally at 1:00 in the morning and I said, "This doesnt look like second place." So we were really happy, I mean, it was -- these are great people.
I think so, its enormous. Ive done a lotta big things, Ive never done anything like this. It is so big, it is so -- its so enormous, its so amazing.
A li -- a little bit, a little bit. And I think -- I realized that this is a whole different life for me now.
So Hillary called and it was a lovely call and it was a tough call for her, I mean, I can imagine. Tougher for her than it would have been for me. And for me, it would have been very, very difficult. She couldnt have been nicer. She just said, "Congratulations, Donald, well done." And I said, "I want to thank you very much, you were a great competitor." She is very strong and very smart.
He did, he called the next day.
He actually called last night.
And he -- he couldnt have been more gracious. He said it was an amazing run. One of the most amazing hes ever seen.
He was very, very -- really, very nice.
Well, it was a double-side nasty.
I mean they were tough and I was tough and -- do I regret? I mean, Im sitting here with you now and were gonna do a great job for the country. Were going to make America great again, I mean, thats what -- it -- it began with that and thats where we are right now. There are so many --
I cant regret. No -- I wish it were softer, I wish it were nicer, I wish maybe even it was more on policy, or whatever you want to say. But -- but I will say that -- it really -- it really is something that Im very proud of I mean it was a tremendous campaign.
Sure.
15 max.
This was just going to be a quick little chat and it lasted close to an hour and a half. And it could have gone on for four hours. I mean it was -- just -- in fact, it was almost hard breaking it up because we had so many things to say. And he told me -- the good things and the bad things, there are things that are tough right now --
Well…
Well, look I dont want to divulge, but we talked about the Middle East, thats tough. Its a tough situation. I wanted to get his full view and I got his, you know I got a good part of his view.
And I like having that because Im going to be inheriting that in a short period of time. I found him to be terrific. I found him to be -- very smart and very nice. Great sense of humor, as much as you can have a sense of humor talking about tough subjects, but we were talking about some pretty tough subjects.
–and we were talking about some victories, also, some things that -- that he feels very good about. But --
Well, what I really wanted to focus on was -- the Middle East, North Korea, Obamacare is tough. You know, healthcare is a tough situation.
Well, he didnt ask me, no, he told me -- you know, the merits and the difficulties. And we understand that.
No, I think Im a sober person. I think the press tries to make you into something a little bit different. In my case, a little bit of a wild man. Im not. Im actually not. Im a very sober person. But it was respect for the office, it was respect for the president. Again, I never met him before, but we had -- we had a very good chemistry going. And -- and I really found—it might not be that I agree with him, but I really found the conversation unbelievably interesting.
You know what, it was a very -- it was a very interesting thing because -- I mean, few people have asked me from my family, what was that first period of time like?
We never discussed what was said about each other. I said terrible things about him, he said terrible things about me. We never ever discussed what we said about each other—
Ill be honest, from my standpoint zero, zero. And thats strange. Im actually surprised to tell you that. Its -- you know, a little bit strange.
No, I think its a moment in time where politicians for a long period of time have let people down. Theyve let em down on the job front. Theyve even let em down in terms of the war front. You know, weve been fighting this war for 15 years --
Weve spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, $6 trillion, we could have rebuilt our country twice. And you look at our roads and our bridges and our tunnels and all of the -- and our airports are, like, obsolete. And I think it was just a repudiation of whats been taking place over a longer period of time than that.
You know, Ill conduct myself -- in a very good manner, but depends on what the situation is, sometimes you have to be rougher. When I look at -- when I look at the world and you look at how various places are taking advantage of our country, and I say it, and I say it very proudly, its going to be America first. Its not going to be what were doing—we, weve lost -- were losing this country. Were losing this country. Thats why I won the election. And by the way, won it easily, I mean I won easily. That was big, big.
Well, sometimes you need a certain rhetoric to get people motivated. I dont want to be just a little nice monotone character and in many cases I will be.
Sure I can. I can be easily, thats easier. Honestly to do that, its easier.
Yes.
For certain areas I would, but certain areas, a wall is more appropriate. Im very good at this, its called construction.
Yeah, it could be – it could be some fencing.
What we are going to do is get the people that are criminal and have criminal records, gang members, drug dealers, we have a lot of these people, probably two million, it could be even three million, we are getting them out of our country or we are going to incarcerate. But were getting them out of our country, theyre here illegally. After the border is secured and after everything gets normalized, were going to make a determination on the people that youre talking about who are terrific people, theyre terrific people but we are gonna make a determination at that -- But before we make that determination -- Lesley, its very important, we want to secure our border.
Well, I would say there was more than one thing, there were three things, it was healthcare, there was immigration and there was a major tax bill lowering taxes in this country. Were going to substantially simplify and lower the taxes --
And I have both Houses and we have the presidency, so we can do things --
Its been a long time since its happened.
And they gave me a lot of credit. Dont forget, I was abused four or five weeks ago, they said I was going to -- instead of having all three, we would lose all three. So that was good. But those are the three things that we really discussed.
Yeah.
And when you say lobbyists, lobbyists and special interests.
I dont like it, no.
Thats the only people you have down there.
Sure. Everybodys a lobbyist down there --
Thats what they are. Theyre lobbyists or special interests—
–we are trying to clean up Washington. Look --
Everything, everything down there -- there are no people -- there are all people that work -- thats the problem with the system, the system. Right now, were going to clean it up. Were having restrictions on foreign money coming in, were going to put on term limits, which a lot of people arent happy about, but were putting on term limits. Were doing a lot of things to clean up the system. But everybody that works for government, they then leave government and they become a lobbyist, essentially. I mean, the whole place is one big lobbyist.
Im saying that they know the system right now, but were going to phase that out. You have to phase it out.
OK.
Yes.
Well, I cant tell you that, but I have made --
You know the amazing thing to show you the incredible nature of our country. First of all, every major leader and probably less than major le- has called me, Ive spoken to many of them and Ill call the rest of them, but and I said, "Boy, this really shows you how powerful our country is." France and U.K. and I mean everybody, all over Asia—and very, just to congratulate. But it really shows the power of our country.
Yes. Very important.
So look, heres whats going to happen -- Im going to -- Im pro-life. The judges will be pro-life. Theyll be very—
Well, there are a couple of things. Theyll be pro-life, theyll be -- in terms of the whole gun situation, we know the Second Amendment and everybodys talking about the Second Amendment and theyre trying to dice it up and change it, theyre going to be very pro-Second Amendment. But having to do with abortion if it ever were overturned, it would go back to the states. So it would go back to the states and --
No, itll go back to the states.
Yeah.
Yeah, well, theyll perhaps have to go, theyll have to go to another state.
Well, well see what happens. Its got a long way to go, just so you understand. That has a long, long way to go.
No.
I respect it. But Im not scared by it.
Thats only because they dont know me. I really believe thats only because --
I just dont think they know me.
Well, I think in some cases, you have professional protesters. And we had it -- if you look at WikiLeaks, we had --
Well Lesley—
Oh, I think some of them will be professional, yeah --
I would tell them dont be afraid, absolutely.
Oh, I think, no, no, I think -- I am saying it, Ive been saying it.
Dont be afraid. We are going to bring our country back. But certainly, dont be afraid. You know, we just had an election and sort of like you have to be given a little time. I mean, people are protesting. If Hillary had won and if my people went out and protested, everybody would say, "Oh, thats a terrible thing." And it would have been a much different attitude. There is a different attitude. You know, there is a double standard here.
I am very surprised to hear that -- I hate to hear that, I mean I hate to hear that --
I dont hear it—I saw, I saw one or two instances…
But I think its a very small amount. Again, I think its --
I would say dont do it, thats terrible, cause Im gonna bring this country together.
I am so saddened to hear that. And I say, "Stop it." If it -- if it helps. I will say this, and I will say right to the cameras: Stop it.
Yeah.
I said some of them. Some of them are --
So its a modern form of communication, between Face -- you know, Facebook and Twitter and I guess Instagram, I have 28 million people. 28 million people --
Its a great form of communication. Now, do I say Ill give it up entirely and throw out, thats a tremendous form -- I pick up -- Im picking up now, I think I picked up yesterday 100,000 people. Im not saying I love it, but it does get the word out. When you give me a bad story or when you give me an inaccurate story or when somebody other than you and another network, or whatever, cause of course, CBS would never do a thing like that right? I have a method of fighting back. Thats very tough --
Im going to do very restrained, if I use it at all, Im going to do very restrained. I find it tremendous. Its a modern form of communication. There should be nothing you should be ashamed of. Its -- its where its at. I -- I do believe this, I really believe that, um -- the fact that I have such power in terms of numbers with Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, et cetera, I think it helped me win all of these races where theyre spending much more money than I spent. You know, I spent my money. A lot of my money. And I won. I think that social media has more power than the money they spent, and I think maybe to a certain extent, I proved that.
Well, Ill tell you what Im going to do, Im going to think about it. Um, I feel that I want to focus on jobs, I want to focus on healthcare, I want to focus on the border and immigration and doing a really great immigration bill. We want to have a great immigration bill. And I want to focus on all of these other things that weve been talking about.
And get the country straightened away.
Yeah. She did --
She did some bad things, I mean she did some bad things --
I dont want to hurt them. I dont want to hurt them. Theyre, theyre good people. I dont want to hurt them. And I will give you a very, very good and definitive answer the next time we do 60 Minutes together.
With that…
[Donald Trump
She will be terrific. She is very strong and very confident, but shes very warm. And I think shell have a platform where shell really be able to do a lot of good. And thats what she wants to do.
She does --
Im not a big tweeter. I mean, I dont do too many, but they hit home. And they have to get a point across.
Well, I actually sat down with Melania and my whole family and we talked about it. Don, Ivanka, Eric, Tiffany. Barron to a lesser extent, but Barron too. Um, because in a way hes affected every bit as much. Maybe more.
And so we all had a dinner and I said, "I would like to do this. I think I can do a great job." And I wanted to get, number one, a consensus and number two, ideally, their permission. And they all agreed.
I will say, it is on a different scale now, cause Ive had a lot. But Ive never had anything like this.
I think that I would rather not comment on that yet. I dont -- I havent made up my mind. I respect him a lot. I respect the FBI a lot. I think --
Well, theres been a lotta leaking, theres no question about that. But I would certainly like to talk to him. And see him. This is a tough time for him. And I would like to talk to him before Id answer a question like that.
Well, sure, Im not sure. Id wanna see, you know, he may have had very good reasons for doing what he did.
At the appropriate time, I will release them. But right now Im under routine audit. Nobody cares. The only one who cares is, you know, you and a few people that asked that question. Obviously, the public didnt care because I won the election very easily. So they dont care. I never thought they did care.
I do.
Well, I think the electoral ca -- look, I won with the Electoral College.
You know, its --
Yeah, some of the election locations are. Some of the system is. I hated --
I hated -- well, you know, Im not going to change my mind just because I won. But I would rather see it where you went with simple votes. You know, you get 100 million votes and somebody else gets 90 million votes and you win. Theres a reason for doing this because it brings all the states into play. Electoral College and theres something very good about that. But this is a different system. But I respect it. I do respect the system.
We have so much work. Theres so much work to be done. And I want to get it done for the people. I want to get it done. Were lowering taxes, were taking care of health care. I mean, theres just so much to be done. So I dont think well be very big on vacations, no.
Well, Ive never commented on this, but the answer is no. I think I have to by law take $1, so Ill take $1 a year. But its a -- I dont even know what it is.
Do you know what the salary is?
No, Im not gonna take the salary. Im not taking it.
Well, it was very interesting. I got a call from Father Bush, who is a wonderful man. And he just said, "Congratulations. It was an amazing campaign." And then I got a call from George and he said -- "Congratulations. It was great." And, you know, look, its -- its a tough situation. I went to war with Jeb. And Jebs a nice guy, but it was a nasty campaign. It was a nasty campaign. And, I mean, Im disappointed in one thing. He signed a pledge and I dont know how you sign a pledge and then you dont honor it. It was a rough primary. Its a rough primary. Although I think the general was probably just as tough. Probably as a combination, it was the roughest ever.
I think its horrible if thats happening. I think its built up by the press because, frankly, theyll take every single little incident that they can find in this country, which couldve been there before. If I werent even around doing this, and theyll make into an event because thats the way the press is.
And yet I mentioned them at the Republican National Convention. And --
Everybody said, "That was so great." I have been, you know, Ive been-a supporter.
It -- its irrelevant because it was already settled. Its law. It was settled in the Supreme Court. I mean its done.
Its done. It -- you have -- these cases have gone to the Supreme Court. Theyve been settled. And, Im fine with that.
They spent $1 billion against me on the word "Temperament." It was given by Madison Avenue. And they thought that, by temperament, they could maybe, you know, win the election. Obviously, it didnt work because were here and theyre not. And I think my strongest asset is my temperament because I have a temperament where we win and were going to start winning again. Were going to win on trade, were going to win at the borders, were going to knock out ISIS.
I dont tell you that. I dont tell you that.
Im not like the people going in right now and fighting Mosul and they announced it four months before they went into Mosul and everybody now is -- its a tough fight because, number one, the people from the -- leaders of ISIS have left. What do you -- why do I have to tell you that?
Im not gonna say anything. I dont want to tell them anything. I dont want to tell anybody anything.
I wanna do the job. We have some great generals. We have great generals.
Well, Ill be honest with you, I probably do because look at the job theyve done. OK, look at the job theyve done. They havent done the job. Now, maybe its leadership, maybe its something else. Who knows? All I can tell you is were going to get rid of ISIS.
Yes. Because it happens to be one of the strongest assets.
Also, with the children living with their parents for an extended period, were gonna --
Very much try and keep that. Adds cost, but its very much something were going to try and keep.
No, were going to do it simultaneously. Itll be just fine. Were not going to have, like, a two-day period and were not going to have a two-year period where theres nothing. It will be repealed and replaced. And well know. And itll be great health care for much less money. So itll be better health care, much better, for less money. Not a bad combination.
