Donald Trump|Interview: Sean Hannity Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News' Hannity|January 26, 2017
Thank you.
It's been a great week. We have accomplished a lot.
Right.
Well, I'm going to keep as many as I can. You know, politics is tough. Sometimes, you make a promise, and for some reason, you can't because you have opposition on the other side that raises their hand and they make it impossible. But I'm going to keep a lot of them, and I've kept a lot of them already. Everyone's talking about it.
And we're going to do things that I said we were going to do. And we're going to take care of a lot of people that were mistreated by government for many, many years. And that's really how I won the election in the first place, Sean. You know that better than probably anybody.
Totally extreme. And beyond just those countries, we're going to have extreme vetting. We're going to have extreme vetting for people coming into our country, and if we think there's a problem, it's not going to be so easy for people to come in anymore.
You look at what's gone on. I mean, we could just go one after another. But then you go to other countries and you look at Nice and you like at different places all over Europe and you look at what's happening with Germany, it's a mess. The crime is incredible. And we're just not going to let that happen here.
Well, I tell you what. You used the right word, gamble. We don't want to have gambles. Our country has a lot of problems, well beyond this. And I found out a lot over the last week. I mean, we have serious difficulties. We don't need another difficulty. Right now, the FBI has over 1,000 investigations going on, 1,000...
... in all areas. All over the place. And these are people that we let in. We don't need this, all right? We don't need this. Some people have come in with evil intentions, and you know, most haven't, I guess. But we can't take chances. You know, the word gamble is an appropriate word. It's a big gamble. You're throwing something up.
Look, I love this country. You love this country. We can't let this continue to happen. We've taken in tens of thousands of people. We know nothing about them. They can say they vet them. They didn't vet them. They have no papers. How can you vet somebody when you don't know anything about them and you have no papers? How do you vet them? You can't.
On your show, I've seen that they have FBI agents, they have all these people that you have as experts. They say it's impossible to vet them. I don't have to see that to know that they're right.
So we have people in this country that will cause problems. We're not going to have any more. And we're going to be very tough and very, very vigilant.
Right.
I don't think we're going to need too much. Look the wall is necessary. That's not just politics, and yet it is good for the heart of the nation in a certain way because people want protection. And a wall protects. All you have to do is ask Israel. They were having a total disaster coming across, and they had a wall. It's 99.9 percent stoppage.
A proper wall, not a wall that's this high like they have now. They have little toy walls. I don't know why they even wasted their time. If you ever saw where they build the little ramp over the -- I don't even know why they build a ramp. It's cheaper to knock it over. You build a ramp...
I'm talking about a real wall. I'm talking about a wall that's got to be, like, serious. And even that, of course, you'll have people violate it. But we'll have people waiting for them when they do. We have a great man, General Kelly, who just got approved very quickly by the Senate, recommended highly by General Mattis and others.
And he's going to be taking very good care of us -- Homeland Security. He's going to be taking very, very good care of us. And you know, when he was named, he didn't even give an order yet, and all of the sudden, the border started tightening up. You saw that. It was on a lot of different shows, they talked about the borders tightening up just by naming General Kelly.
Yes.
The answer's yes.
I don't want to say that. You're going to see on Thursday.
I have made my decision pretty much in my mind, yes.
Now, that is subject to change at the last moment. But I think this will be a great choice.
Hey, whatever happens, happens.
Yes, I would.
I would...
... because look, we have obstructionists. These are people that don't want to -- I almost think they have -- what they did to Jeff Sessions, who's a great man and a wonderful man, and then they delayed it another week because they have a one-week delay option -- that's not fair to a man. Other people are delayed. Look at Pompeo for CIA. This is a great choice. Everybody agrees. And they delayed him a number of days also, even though he was fully approved and voted on by -- you know, I mean, very, very great choice. Why are they doing that?
They're obstructionists. I'll tell you what. They're obstructionists. I go to a meeting with them that's supposed to be a very quiet meeting, nobody talking outside of the meeting. They leave the meeting and they have a news conference about what I said. They're talking to the cameras about exactly what I said at the meeting, which is fine because I say things that I don't mind going out because I assume they're going to do that. But the deal was we wouldn't talk to the press. And they go out and they talk to the press.
No, no. But I mean, they talk to the press, like, 15 feet away from the door! [Laughter]
It's not like they called up when they got home.
So look, these are obstructionists, and that's fine.
So a balanced budget is fine. But sometimes, you have to fuel the wall in order to really get the economy going. And we have to take care of our military. Our military is more important to me than a balanced budget because we'll get there with a balanced budget.
But we have a military that's really depleted. And I'm negotiating the price of airplanes, can you believe this? But I understand airplanes. I've bought a lot of airplanes.
I cut off hundreds of millions of dollars off one particular plane, hundreds of millions of dollars in a short period of time. It wasn't like I spent, like, weeks, hours, less than hours, and many, many hundreds of millions of dollars. And the plane's going to be better.
I want a balanced budget eventually. But I want to have a strong military. To me, that's much more important than anything.
Right.
Look, our country's in bad shape. We've spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, $6 trillion, Sean!
OK? How the hell do we do this? It's crazy. And by the way, just so you understand, the Middle East -- I don't want to be -- like, you know, they said the speech can be dark on occasion. Well, we spent $6 trillion.
When I was interviewed last night by David Muir, he said, Aren't you going to make them angry? I said, Angry? How can they be more angry than they are right now? Who are we going to make angry? I thought it was a sort of strange question. But aren't you going to make them angry? I said, They're all angry now. The whole world is angry right now. There's such problems in the world and such anger.
But we spent all of this money in the Middle East and other places. In the meantime, we have to rebuild our country. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. Some Republicans are fine with it. Some Republicans don't like it. Actually, probably, the Democrats like that more than the Republicans because that's always been one of the things.
But Sean, our roads, our bridges, our highways, our schools -- our country is in bad shape!
It's all right.
General Motors… [Crossta;k]
Yes, we have a lot of -- a lot of plants are going to be built in Michigan and Ohio and North Carolina and Pennsylvania. And I've only been here for four days. But they understand. They understand that if they build a plant outside of the United States, fire all their employees, when that product, whether it's a car or an air-conditioner or a washing machine, when that comes through the border, it's going to be heavily taxed. That's the way it is.
Yes, I do.
75 or more.
And by the way...
By the way, the 75 percent -- and we will have the same amount of protection for the consumer because it's very important to me. But we'll also be able to create jobs because right now, you can't even start a company in this country.
They're very hostile. These are very hostile people. These are very angry people.
Yes.
Well, they're very dishonest people. The media is very dishonest. I've been saying it. I say it openly.
Never dead, but they're very dishonest people in many cases. Hey, look, you have some very honest ones. But I get stories that are so false and so dishonest...
Yes, they said Martin Luther King's bust was taken out of the Oval Office by me.
See that's a very serious charge because they're not saying the bust was taken out. What they're saying is that I'm a racist. That's what they're saying. That's a very serious charge. Then it turned out the bust, it wasn't -- in fact, I got very angry at my people. I said, Who took that bust out? Because I wasn't there. And they said it was never moved. It was in the same exact spot. It was never moved. I said, How could they say it?
A reporter said that it was taken out. But that's a very, very serious charge because that's a racist charge. Then when it was revealed that they were wrong, nobody even talks about it. It was a headline, massive story, Trump takes -- I would never do that.
First of all, I had great respect for Dr. Martin Luther King, so I would never do that. But when it was revealed that it was wrong, it wasn't even a story. Nobody even knows it. I'm saying it now and there have been a little -- like, a line. But that's a very -- so I'll give you another example... [Crosstalk]
Let me give you one other. I went to the CIA, my first stop, because I have great respect for intelligence...
... not the man who headed the CIA. Hey, I don't have any respect for him. But Brennan -- I didn't think he was good. But I have great respect for the CIA, for the people.
I went there. I have even more respect now because they took me for tours. They showed me. They're amazing. I made a speech. Now, I know if it's good or bad. I'm really good at knowing did I do well or did I do poorly? And hopefully… [Crosstalk]
I couldn't have done so poorly because I won, right?
No, but in your own head, you do, too.
When you do an interview, you say, You know, I did great or I didn't do so good. I gave a speech that really was a 10, relatively speaking. I had a standing ovation like you wouldn't believe. Everybody. And it was such a success.
OK. So now I see CNN and other people say, Well, who was in the audience from Trump? Trump? I went there with a few people. There's nobody. It was all CIA. They said, But I heard the first row and the first two -- you saw that press conference. Sean did a great job.
But this guy, whoever he was -- I don't even know who he was -- he was saying that we stacked the audience. I can't stack the audience at the CIA. I pay great homage to the wall with the stars. I paid great homage.
And the audience was standing ovation. They actually -- they were standing from the beginning. They didn't even sit down. It was one standing ovation, the whole thing. So I get back -- and I will say, Fox treated it great. They said it was great.
When our new person running, Mike Pompeo, who is fantastic -- he said to me the other day, That was so great. Everyone loved it. Everybody loved it. When I got back, I saw the speech. They didn't like it. It wasn't respectful. It was a smattering of applause. It wasn't a smattering. It was -- there were, like, 300, 350 people in the room. Over 1,000 wanted to come. And if I took a vote right now, I would have won 350 to nothing, believe me. But even that was demeaned as much as they can demean it.
What I'm saying, Sean, is this. The media -- much of the media, not all of it, is very, very dishonest. Honestly, it's fake news. It's fake. They make things up.
Yes, pretty close.
Yes.
Right.
Well, they are the liars. Let me give you an example. When Sean got up, he talked about the audience and he talked about -- I had the largest audience. I did. I had the largest audience. If you add the television, you add all the sources, the largest audience in the history of inaugurations. I did.
hey try and demean it so much. And when you look at pictures -- I'd love to show you a picture -- when I was in that speech, I looked out, it was a sea of...
... people, and they want to demean it. I don't even know when that picture was taken, by the way, to be honest with you. But it wasn't taken from where I was. They take a picture from the back, from the Washington Monument, a backward picture.
They are so demeaning and they are so dishonest. And in many cases now, it's more of -- but when you bring up ...
They don't.
Look, that could never have happened. The things that happen to me would -- and he's been very nice to me, I have to say, and he wrote me a beautiful letter. But the Martin Luther King thing is an example. That was a terrible thing. [End Videotape]
We will have an ambitious legislative agenda, as well. Our legislative work starts with repealing and replacing ObamaCare and saving families from the catastrophic rise in premiums and debilitating loss of choice and just about everything else.
ObamaCare is a disaster. The Democrats are up and they're saying -- oh, they're putting up signs like it's wonderful. It's a disaster. I actually talked with Paul and the group about just doing nothing for two years, and the Dems would come begging to do something because '17 is going to be catastrophic price increases. Your deductibles are through the roof. You can't use it.
We have to take care of the American people immediately. So we can't wait.
But every time they tell you about ObamaCare -- we're taking them out of a big jam. [Commercial Break]

They don't think they're going to make that. You want at the same time repeal and replace. I know there are nine separate plans out there. What is crucial for you to have in that plan to help...
Let me tell you what's crucial for me. What's crucial for me is for the public to understand that ObamaCare is a disaster, OK? Because now the Democrats are saying, Oh, it's wonderful. It's a horror show! You don't have your doctor. You don't have your plan. You have 116 percent increases, like in Arizona. It's a disaster. It's going to be worse this year than it was last year. It actually explodes in '17.
And I told the Republicans. I said, look, if you really want to do something, just let it explode, and then they'll come begging us to fix it, OK? Begging. But that's not the right thing for the public because we have to get it fixed.
But ObamaCare doesn't work. It doesn't work. And President Obama told me something that was, I thought, terrific. And I believe he means it. He said, If you came up with a better plan and you could get a better plan approved, he would support it. And I actually believe he means it.
I do believe we're going to have a much better plan. I think we're going to have a cheaper plan. I think it's going to be a lot less expensive. ObamaCare is the Unaffordable Care Act.""" do believe we're going"
It went up $5,400 when it was supposed to be down $2,500 a year. Let me move on.
You can't even buy a catastrophic plan.
Let me ask you. Energy -- and you know this from your years in building. It's the lifeblood of our economy.
We are dependent on foreign nations...
... many of whom do not like us. We have more shale. We have new technology. We have hydro-fracking natural gas. We're the Middle East of natural gas. How important a goal is it that you want this country to move towards energy independence?
Can you do it in four years?
Oh, I think you can do it in a lot less than that. No, it's very important. No, they stop you environmentally. They use the environment to stop a lot of good things, not only energy, buildings and factories, plants. They use it to stop things. It's like a roadblock, but that's not going to happen anymore.
You've mentioned the forgotten man a lot both during the campaign ...
-- and woman -- and in your inaugural speech. And you mentioned it last night. I gave you statistics, the very first interview I did with you, 95 million Americans out of the labor force, nearly 50 million in poverty, 44 million Americans on food stamps.
I say it every night. [Laughter]
One day, you asked, what are all those numbers you give, you said. But explain -- by getting rid of regulation, energy independence, jobs that will be created, a 15 percent -- from the highest corporate tax rate to the lowest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world, and repatriating trillions. How does that help and impact those people I talk about all the time?
Seven billion dollars.
Alibaba.
Alibaba, who's a great guy, by the way. All of these companies, they're all excited. They had no intention.
You know, here's another thing with the media. Oh, they would have done it anyway. They weren't going to do it. You see Jack Ma. He had no intention of doing it until I got elected. And he went down and he said, I'm only going to do this because of Donald Trump. And nobody put that in the papers, which is OK. What difference does it make, as long as he does it? And he's going to do it.
And trade deals. You got rid of TPP. You want all bilateral trade agreements ...
But you want bilateral?
With everybody.
We're going to make deals with every one of those countries. And you know what? If the deal doesn't work out, we terminate the deal. When you get into the mosh pit, I call it -- where you have all these countries together, you can't get out of the deal.
And you take the lowest denominator. In other words, you have countries that don't treat us well. They're in there. We want to deal with the ones that treat us well. And if they don't treat us well, we terminate or we give them a 30-day notice of termination. And then they come back and they want to renegotiate during that 30 days, and we get a better deal. We don't make good deals anymore. You almost wonder who does these deals? How did it happen?
That and more as we continue from Washington, D.C. Please stay with us. [Begin Video Clip]
We will reinforce old alliances and form new ones and unite the civilized world against radical Islamic terrorism, which we will eradicate completely from the face of the earth!
We have to get rid of ISIS. Have to get rid of ISIS. We have no choice. This is evil. This is a level of evil that we haven't seen.
One of the problems we have is evil in our time.
Winston Churchill dealt with evil in his time. Roosevelt dealt with evil in his time. My father fought in World War II.
That's true. This is different.
Waterboarding black sites came up in your interview last night. And I was thinking, if I had an opportunity to speak with David Muir, I'd say, OK, two guys go into your house, they kidnap your child, one guy gets away with your child, you tackle the other guy. That guy knows where your child is, would you not water board that guy?
That's why it was legal.
Well, we actually know it works. I interviewed -- there were only three people that America water boarded. One of whom was Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. That led us to the courier which led us to bin Laden. And I know because I talked to the guy that was running the program at the time.
I want to ask you about --
None.
None. Not one.
We both lost friends that day.
I would ask David Muir, if they kidnapped your kid and you have one of the kidnappers, what would you do to get the location of your child?
It's over.
It's over at that point.
Let me ask you this. I will go through these very quickly, the countries that you're going to be dealing with now. Israel, one of our closest partners, Prime Minister Netanyahu is coming. One of the big issues is the embassy, Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. How important is it to repair this relationship, and what about that move of that embassy?
It's repaired already.
Within five minutes?
And you're holding back the money -- the last-minute money that President Obama gave to the Palestinians.
Where do you stand on the embassy from Tel Aviv to --
Not yet? OK, how about -- I know you spoke to General el-Sisi, did you ever see the speech that he gave on radical Islam?
And do you believe he could --
Do you trust the Saudis? Over the years, I would argue they've been very duplicitous.
Have you talked to Vladimir Putin yet? So much came up about this. Have you had discussions with him?
How about the leaders of China?
And I know you spoke to the leaders in India. What about Pakistan?
Let me ask this. I think is important. I actually agree with you wholeheartedly about the Iranian deal. Would you --
We paid them ransom.
Let me ask you about the power of the pardon, which is absolute for a president. One night, I know you were watching my show and I had the mother of the sailor who is spending a year in jail because he took six pictures for his own use in a submarine and you were comparing it. Would that be something early on you would consider?
Kristian Saucier.
Did you hear the story of Clint Lorance, another guy, got 30 years. He was doing his job, protecting his team in Afghanistan.
When you saw the Women's March this week and then you hear Madonna say I thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House." Imagine if I said that when Barack Obama was here.""hen you saw the Women's March this week and then you hear Madonna say "I thought an awful lot about blowing ""en you saw the Women's March this wee"
Cause.
Last question, and then we're going to -- you will take us to the Oval Office, which is nice. You were very passionate last night about Chicago and about the violence. In the course of Barack Obama's presidency, 4,000 people died, murdered, and another however-many-thousand more shot. You might go in and help fix it if they can't fix it.
It's a warzone.
And coming up, President Trump takes me inside the Oval Office as our cable exclusive interview with the 45th commander-in-chief continues. Please stay with us. [Begin Video Clip]
We will get our people off of welfare and back to work rebuilding our country with American hands and American labor.
From this day forward, it's going to be only America first.
He has one after another made announcement after announcement that jobs are coming back.
We are going to put a lot of people back to work. We're going to use common sense and do it the way it's supposed to be done.
It's inauguration night. You gave your speech.
You go to the balls, you come back, and you're in the White House, in the residence with Melania. And by the way, that's Marine One right there.
And so my question is, what'd you say? What are you thinking?
Yes.
I'm sure.
What a beautiful helicopter.
That's beautiful.
I have known you for years, and on a personal level, whenever I have ever talked to you, it's either 11:00 p.m., 12 midnight, 1:00 a.m. or 5:00 or 6:00 a.m. You're a workaholic.
You get bored on vacations?
You're busy now.
Hard on your family? For example, I met your son, your 10-year- old.
What a wonderful, smart, charming kid. And then they attack him. That's got to hurt you and Melania.
Horrible.
And he's a great kid.
I know him. I know -- yes.
I know you talked a little bit about this, the nuclear codes. How long was that meeting? How in depth was it?
And that's what you said about Putin, if we can get along, we'll get along.
In many cases it's going to be harder when -- I've always said there's a clash of culture or civilizations, you know, countries that practice Sharia. By the way we're in the Oval Office.
That's Lincoln.
By the way --
Yes.
Get a shot of these.
It was a pretty rough campaign.
When you first walk in this office every day and you think of it --
I've got one question about the desk, and you have Ivanka and Jared have young kids. Are we going to see one of the kids maybe crawling through there?
Yes.
Why did you pick that desk?
You were very impressed with your phones too.
But we need to.
I assume you're going to be putting, there's a picture of your father --
That wasn't there yesterday.
I did notice that.
And I really -- why did you choose the rug of Reagan? You could have also designed your own.
Trade, yeah.
In your lifetime, who was the president that maybe you admire the most?
I was surprised -- my last question for you. I was surprised last night. I was watching your interview and you were holding up the letter that Barack Obama had -- had left you.
It seemed like a lengthy letter.
And you seemed to have a personal rapport with him. And you were right, this was a really, really incredibly vicious campaign.
He doesn't talk to me.
I can't figure out why.
Helpful to you?
Very, very last question.
Has this whole experience changed you in ways -- in any way that you can think of?
You're working.
Mr. President, good to see you.
Thank you for your time, you've been very generous.