Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Topeka, Kansas|October 6, 2018
Hello, Kansas, thank you very much. Hello, Kansas. Thank you. And Im thrilled to be here with all of my friends on this truly historic night. This is a historic night. I stand before you today on the heels of a tremendous victory for our nation, our people, and our beloved constitution. Just a few hours ago the U.S. Senate confirmed Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court, and I proudly signed the judges commission aboard Air Force One just before landing.
And this Monday night, at 7:00 pm in the East Room of the White House, We will perform the swearing in ceremony for soon-to-be Justice Kavanaugh, a great man. And he will sit proudly alongside Justice Neil Gorsuch, whos doing a great job to uphold your sacred rights and to defend your God-given freedom.
And I want to thank our incredible Republican senators for refusing to back down in the face of the Democrats, shameless campaign of political and personal destruction. Since the moment Brett Kavanaugh was senate, and you remember this, we made an announcement and since right from the moment we announced, radical Democrats launched a disgraceful campaign to resist, obstruct, delay, demolish, and destroy, right from the beginning.
Brett Kavanaugh is a man of great character and intellect. Hes a totally brilliant scholar, who has devoted his life to the law, he is a loving husband, a devoted father, and a faithful public servant, and he always has been. What he and his wonderful family endured at the hands of Democrats is unthinkable, unthinkable.
In their quest for power, the radical Democrats have turned into an angry mob, you saw that today with the screaming and the shouting, not from the 200 people or less that were -- You know what? Those people, they couldnt fit in the front row, look what we have here today. They threw away and threw aside every notion of fairness, of justice, of decency and of due process.
Nobodys seen anything like it. What each of you will have a chance in just four weeks to render your verdict on the Democrats conduct at the ballot box. Got to vote, got to vote. On November 6th, you will have the chance to stop the radical Democrats, and thats what theyve become, by electing a Republican House and a Republican Senate. We will increase our majorities. We need more Republicans, we need more Republicans.
Over the past few weeks, every American has now seen the profound stakes in the upcoming election. You now see it. We have been energized, we have been energized. if Democrats are willing to cause such destruction in the pursuit of power, Just imagine the devastation they would cause if they ever obtained the power they so desperately want, and Greg. Youll going to have other Supreme Court justices places to be filled it could be three, it could even be four, it could be a lot.
And if you allow the wrong people to get into office, things could change, they could change, and they could change fast. And were not going to let that happen, we cant let that happen. It could go very quickly, it can change very fast, we cant let that happen. You dont hand matches to an arsonist and you dont give power to an angry leftwing mob, and thats what theyve become. The Democrats have become too extreme and too dangerous to govern.
Republicans believe in the rule of law, not the rule of the mob. Were doing a hell of a job of doing it, were draining the swamp and we want to defeat the Democrats conducively. So under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, America is winning because we are finally putting America first, we are putting America first.
Yesterday it was announced that unemployment has fallen to 3.7%, the lowest unemployment rate in 50 years, lowest in 50 years. Weve created nearly 600,000 jobs in the last three months alone, think of that, 600,000, and if I ever said that, when I was campaigning, the fake news media would go, Id say, "Impossible." They are fake.
Manufacturing confidence is at an all-time high. Confidence, very important, all-time high. And we have the best economy in the history of our country, the best.Were taking care of our veterans, protecting our great seniors, and rebuilding Americas military might like it hasnt been built before. But if Democrats take control, they will try to plunge our country into gridlock poverty and chaos, and thats whats going to happen, it can change.
The Democrats want to significantly raise your taxes. Essentially, they want to impose socialism, Venezuela, dismantle law enforcement and eliminate our borders. They want to have nice, open borders, no way. Bill. The Democrats have become the party of crime, they have become the party of crime, think of it. Republicans are the party of law and order, and justice.
And we really have become, even more so, than ever before the party of opportunity and wealth, and thats whats happening with creating wealth for everybody. Whether its small businesses big businesses or people wanting great jobs, thats whats happening. And you know wages? Right now, for the first time in 19 years, wages are going up for people, and jobs. you can choose the job you want for the first time. Many years.
So we are thrilled to be joined by a number of your states terrific Republican leaders. And I have to tell you that I wasnt supposed to be here because, you know, this is such a big day. This is such a big day. I was supposed to call you, they said, "Do you mind calling Kris Kobach and Steve Watkins? Do you mind telling them?
That because of the fact that we are, today, getting this great, great, talented, wonderful Supreme Court judge. They said, "Could you call the people of Kansas and tell them we wont be able to make it tonight.?" I said, "I dont have the courage to do that. I dont have the courage" I said, "I dont have the courage." They call me, they said, "Sir, were signing the next United States Supreme Court justice."
They always say, youve heard it. The biggest thing a president can do, theyve always said, is Supreme Court justice the biggest, and some of it none. Weve had two in less than two years, I guess, you know, some of  some presidents have it. But its the biggest thing you can do so they said, "Sir, do you mind canceling Kansas tonight? Were going to have -- " I said, "No way Im canceling Kansas. No way. No way."
I had that phone working, I had that phone working on that plane, I had that signature going on the plane, and here we are. And by the way, you think this crowd inside is big, you could see the crowd thats outside. We just put up big movie screens but I think this is better, right? This is better. I want to thank Congressman Roger Marshall, has been a great friend.
Roger has been a great friend, and a great friend also, Ron Estes, great person. He helped us so much with the tax cuts, with regulation cuts, with so many things that weve passed that nobody thought would be possible, would be possible. So thank you both very much. Where are they? Where are they? Thank you very much, fellas, thank you. Fantastic
And also, I want to thank somebody whos done a fantastic job, GOP Chair Kelly Arnold. Kelly? Great job. You know why a great job? Because we won this state by a lot, right? And after what I just did for you with the new deal with Mexico and Canada, I think we should double it up, I think we should double it up. USMCA, USMCA. I refused to call it NAFTA because NAFTA was such a horrible deal.
You didnt even realize it, that was so -- 50,000 plants and factories emptied out, millions and millions of jobs lost, so we negotiated a new deal, and I said, "Theres no way of calling it NAFTA 2, USMCA. And we opened up -- we opened up agriculture, we opened up dairy, we opened up a lot of things and everybodys really happy.
I dont know how theyre doing in the other places but theyre really happy. So congratulations. Congratulations. And we also signed a great new deal with South Korea and the farmers are going to be benefiting there too. And were working -- Right now they want to make a deal. I said, "Youre not ready to make a deal yet." Were working on a deal with China.
Well see. Well see. Well see. Look, theyve been hitting us hard for a long time. Weve never had a president that did anything about it. $500 billion a year, thats a big one. They take out. So right now were doing extremely well with China, and lets see what happens. Maybe well do it and if we dont were going to be in even better position, you understand that. So well see.
I also want to thank a man of incredible integrity and class, your governor, Jeff Collier. Jeff? Jeff? Wheres Jeff? Jeff is a great guy whos doing a really incredible job and thank you, Jeff. But I didnt know Jeff. I told Jeff, I said, "Nothing personal, I just didnt know you because when I backed Chris and you have one hell of a governor." And I think we have to talk about bringing him down to Washington or something. We talked about it.
Great governor, great man. Were also joined by Kansas Attorney General Derek Schmidt. Thank you. And president of the Kansas State Senate Susan Wagle. Susan. Thank you, Susan. Im so proud that our Campaign Manager Brad Parscale, you know Brad, Brad Parscale. Wheres Brad? Guys like 7 feet tall, so you cant miss him. Thank you, Brad.
Our chief, our chief you know him, our Chief Operating Officer Mike Glassner. You know Michael? Hes fantastic right from the beginning. Thank you, Michael. They all come from Kansas. They all come from Kansas. I guess thats how we win, you get from Kansas you wouldnt lose them. Along with our amazing Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. He is doing a great job.
Hes headed over to North Korea. This guy travels, boy you got to do that to be a good one. You know, if youre home a lot youre not doing much of a good job. Were doing a great job with North Korea were doing a great job with everybody. Mike Pompeo from Kansas. Great man. And also here with us tonight is your next lieutenant governor, Wink Hartman. Thank you, Wink. Thank you, Wink.
So a man thats been with me from the beginning, hes tough, hes strong and I hated that he ran because I would have loved to have brought him into my administration, effectively loses, Ill bring him into my administration in two seconds. I hope he loses because I want him so badly. But dont do that.
Dont you. Dont do that. I was angry when he did it. I said, "Dont do it." "Sir, I want to be the governor of Kansas. I love my people." I said, "Dont do it. Dont do it." I was very unhappy. I was very, very unhappy. I said, "Dont do it." Then he went out and hes been winning and hes been doing an incredible job. But he does, he loves this state. He loves the state so much and I want to introduce the next governor of Kansas, Kris Kobach.
Well let me just say on behalf of all of Kansas, President Trump, welcome to Trump country. It is such an honor and a blessing to have President Trump here in the city where I grew up to support my campaign in the state that we all love. And I want to give President Trump credit for something really important, its something he and I have worked together on. Weve worked for a number of things but the most important is stopping illegal immigration. Im so glad that America has a president who gets it and knows that illegal means illegal.
I want to tell you a quick short story about illegal immigration. I began working on this issue when I was an adviser to John Ashcroft at the time of 9/11. I was there during 9/11, and we all remember how the world changed. But let me tell you something that you may not know. All 19 hijackers came into this country legally on temporary visas.
Five of them became illegal mostly by overstaying their visas. Four of those five were stopped by state and local law enforcement for speeding violations. They were illegally in the country at the time but the cops didnt know it, and so they could -- they didnt make an arrest even though they could have if theyd had that information at their fingertips.
Now get this. Three of those for pi -- the three of those for illegal aliens that they could have arrested were pilots. So if they had made those arrests they could have stopped 9/11 from happening. Those numbers have shaped my career. The gravity of that has never left me and I will not and I know President Trump will not allow our immigration system to be used again as a weapon to harm the American people.
Stopping illegal aliens is not just about jobs, its not just about crime. is about our nations security, and that comes first. And illegal immigration is an issue in this campaign for governor. Did you know that my opponent Laura Kelly voted to continue allowing sanctuary cities in Kansas? She did. She did. Look it up. Its in the roll call vote.
When I am governor, God willing, sanctuary cities will end in this state. Laura Kelly also voted to allow illegal aliens to continue getting welfare benefits. So while were struggling to pay our electricity bill to pay higher taxes, were meanwhile giving taxpayer dollars to illegal aliens. Is that fair? Its time to stop illegal aliens from getting taxpayer dollars.
Its time to put Kansans first, not illegal aliens. Theres another big issue.  Theres another big issue that President Trump and I have both been concerned about. Voter fraud. Because of the law that I drafted in the Kansas legislature passed, Kansas now has the most secure election laws in America. Photo ID creates trust in our elections.
If you need a photo ID to cash a check or to buy the kind of Sudafed that works, you probably going to need one to go cast a vote in an election. And proof of citizenship too, proof of citizenship. Every time an alien votes, every time an alien votes, it cancels out the vote of a U.S. citizen. The Democrats and their socialist friends, they claim they care about voter cancellation or voter suppression, but they dont care about us citizens votes being canceled out.
Its time for other states to require proof of citizenship too, just like Kansas. One more, one more topic. Taxes. Thanks to President Trump, our federal tax burden is much lower. But in Kansas, our state taxes are the highest in the region. Its time to cut our state taxes here in Kansas. When I am governor, the first bill that I want to sign is one that passes along the Trump tax windfall to the people of Kansas.
$137 million. And on top of that, youve got thousands of Kansans being taxed out of their own home because of property tax appraisal increases, they cant afford to live in the home they wanted to retire in. When I am governor we will put a 2$ cap on property tax appraisal increases.
To put it simply, I want to do for Kansas what President Trump has done for America.  Weve got a big election, a big election ahead of us on November 6th. Its a point of choice, not only for America but a big decision for Kansas. Tonight, President Trump is here calling on us to get out there and vote, calling on us to stand up, the time is now. To stand up for the proven principles and constitutional rights that have made this country great and made this country strong.
And the time is now, that we must reject the political correctness that the progressives and the left are constantly putting on us. And stand up, and stand up for the time-tested values of hard work, faith in God and the United States Constitution. Thank you, President Trump, for making America great again. And now were going to make Kansas great again.
Thank you. What a job he did for me, Ill tell you, what a job he did. Hes going to be a great governor. He will do the job for you. He is going to be a great, great governor. He is a tireless champion for border security. Hell fight for you every single day. He doesnt stop. Hell protect your family, hell protect your children.
Now his far-left opponent is Laura Kelly. Voted to raise your taxes. And she supports giving public benefits to the illegal aliens [Inaudible. And Laura Kelly earned an F. And never even heard of an F. An F-rating from the NRA. An F. I assume that means that shes not too big on the second amendment, is that way? How would that be? Everybody get out and vote for my friend Kris Kobach on Election Day, please.
Finally, I want to introduce another terrific Republican candidate, your next congressman. Get out and vote. I need him in Washington. Steve Watkins. Steve is a great veteran. Hes a patriot, and a proud West Point graduate, that means hes very smart. Steve, come on up.
Hey. Kansans can do anything. Im proof of that. I. Grew up a couple of miles away. And here I am standing next to the leader of the free world. And not just any leader, a truly great one. You see, when I left -- when I left Kansas I went among other things I spent eight years in war zones, eight years with my boots in the sand of Iraq and Afghanistan.
Eight years. And in all that time -- all that time I really just learned a couple of things, I know for sure that I have seen the devil, but I have also seen fighters, Donald Trump is a fighter. He fights. He fights for America first, he fights to keep our borders secure, he fights for jobs he fights to those  approaching retirement.
He is a fighter and we are so honored to have him here in Kansas. He moved the U.S. embassy to Jerusalem. Yes. He likes -- he likes appointing pro-constitution judges to the bench. And he is tough on China, Iran, and North Korea. Do other things, Gorsuch and Kavanaugh. Now Kansas, Kansas, you know, might be a little partial, but just think how much more he could have accomplished if he were a Kansan.
Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for all that you do, for Kansas, and for America ,and for this world. Were so glad youre here. Thank you, sir.
Good man. Good man. And a vote for Steve is a vote for me and our agenda to make America great again. You know that agenda. A lot of hats. A vote for Steves opponent, his name is Paul Davis. Hes not good, hes not good, you know that, is a vote for a radical agenda of Nancy Pelosi, Chuck Schumer, and the legendary Maxine Waters.
Here in Kansas, his opponent Paul Davis voted time after time to raise your taxes and fees. And he voted to give public benefits to illegal aliens at work. If you want to stop Nancy Pelosi from becoming speaker of the house, Nancy, let Nancy Pelosi. Woah, you better get out and vote for Steve Watkins, please. A majority of House Democrats have already sponsored a socialist takeover of healthcare.
The Democrats plan would eviscerate Medicare and eliminate Medicare Advantage for 20 million seniors. We want to protect Medicare we will as Republicans protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and paid for it. And we will always protract Americans with pre-existing conditions. We will take care of our great Americans with pre- existing conditions.
Todays Democrats have embraced radical socialism and open borders. If you dont have borders, you dont have a country, folks, you dont have a country. Every single Democrat. In the U.S. Senate has signed up for the open borders and its a bill, its called The Open Borders Bill. Whats going on? And its written by -- Guess who?
Dianne Feinstein. Remember the leaking, right? The leakin Dianne Feinstein. "Did you leak? Did you leak, Dianne? Dianne, did you... " "No, no, no, I dont. No.No. I dont think. Wait. Did we leak? No, he said no, no we didnt leak." Oh. Was that the worst body language youve ever seen? Was that the worst? "No, I didnt leak. I didnt leak." No she didnt leak. Thats what youre dealing with.
If the Democrats bill ever becomes law, a tidal wave of drugs and crime would pour into our nation like never ever before. Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities that release violent predators and bloodthirsty killers like MS-13 into our communities. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law abiding Americans, not criminal aliens
And Republicans stand proudly with the brave men and women of ICE, border patrol, and law enforcement. They wanted the fund ICE. Can you believe it? You know how tough ICE is? When MS-13 sees ICE coming, they say, "Lets get out of here." But you know what? They cant, because they get caught, they get thrown, and they get thrown the hell out of the country. They cant.
They dont like that. The Democrats want to get rid of ICE. So these are great Americans. By the way, ICE, great Americans. They happen to be tough people. I think we need some tough people, theyre tough. MS-13 doesnt like ICE and thats why I like ICE. But they really are, theyre great Americans, they love our country and theyre not treated properly, theyre not treated properly.
Ive seen it in Long Island. They go into a community. Ive grew up in that vicinity, I know every community out there. And they go into these communities and these are rough, rough people, MS13, how they even come in and we stop them at the border but theres so many here from before us, from before us, and our laws are so bad and were getting them changing stuff.
Thats why we need more Republicans. But they come in and -- Long Island, we send ICE and they get in there and they get them out, and its like were liberating a town. In this day and age its like in a war, where you know, youre a foreign invader -- a foreign invader, finally, is being taken out. Theyre liberating a country or liberating a city or town.
These people are liberating these towns, and you know the story, and youve heard it, its all over. They cut people up because they dont want to use bullets, its too fast and its not painful enough. And then when I said. "Animals!" Nancy Pelosi said, "How dare you speak that way about a human being. How dare you." Right? This woman just said it to me. She screamed out of the word animal, so how dare you call them.
Theyre human beings and not -- these are animals folks. These are animals. And we need law enforcement, and we need ICE and we need border patrol. These are great people. And if your community has a problem, dont worry about it just give us a call, well take care of it. Democrats are also fighting to give welfare and free healthcare to illegal aliens paid for by you, the American taxpayer. Thank you very much.
Republicans believe that the public benefits must be protected for the truly, needy Americans. Americans that need help, not illegal aliens. If you want safe. If you want a border. If you want America to remain a sovereign great country then you must organize, mobilize, register, and vote Republican.
We need more Republican votes. This election is about safety. And its also about prosperity. Since the election, we have created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted almost 4 million Americans off of food stamps. And weve added nearly one-half million manufacturing jobs. Think of that. If I ever said that during the cam -- look how many. Oh, man, that you are getting more and more people back there.
Look how many reporters. Look. Wow, thats a lot. Wow. Wow. You know I call it? I call it the Academy Awards. Thats the Academy Award. You know were doing great. Our new polls just came out. I had a poll, Rasmussen 51 or 52, they dont report that, they never report.
But you know -- and Its much higher than that because some people -- I dont know if Im happy about this, they say when they dont want to talk about it that means theyre voting for Trump, I dont know, am I supposed to be thrilled? But well take it, right? Well take it. Thats what happened in 2016. A lot of people didnt want to talk about it and the pollsters puts it down. OK, so -- but now they learned, they learned their lesson. When they dont talk they had Trump voters.
All action. All action, no talk. African-American unemployment has reached its lowest level in recorded history. African-American poverty has reached its lowest rate ever recorded. By the way, by the way, can you imagine during the debate if I have those stats, the best unemployment number ever for African-Americans. Best in terms of poverty ever in history for Africa.
How do you win? How do you beat us on that? Its only habit. Its habit. Because for a hundred years, African-Americans have gone with Democrats but now theyre changing, and theyre changing fast and theyre coming for us. Thank you, Kanye West. Thank you, Jim Brown. Big Jim Brown. Thank you, Iron Mike. I could go through -- We have so many people.
Big Jim Brown. We could use him right now in the NFL, right? Great people. Hispanic- American and Asian-American, likewise, their unemployment rates have also reached all- time historic lows. The lowest. And womens unemployment just fell to 3.6%, the lowest rate in 65 years. And we are, as of right now, the worlds No.1 producer of crude oil and natural gas. Energy. No. 1. No. 1. And since I took office, the value of Americans mutual funds and pension funds has increased by $2.7 trillion. Thats your money, thats your money. And your 401s. You all look like a bunch of geniuses, thank you, Donald, very much. Youre all great investors, right?
Youre all great investors. Thats all good. Weve picked up 11 -- I would say 10, I was saying seven. We picked up now 11.7% Larry Kudlow said it to me the other day, said, "Sir, youre a little lower in that number." I said, "Really?" I was using $10 trillion. Its now $11.7 trillion in worth.
Eleven. You know what that is? And China was catching us rapidly before I became president. And right now we are going so fast, we are the fastest developing country in the world. Can you believe that? Boom. Fastest in the world.  And thats why I say, "We have a midterm coming up, an election." Historically whoevers president -- I dont know why this works, but whoevers -- I guess people get complacent.
You know, "Hey, we just won the presidency." Now two years later we have an election, so they are complacent and then we always win in the next one, which is, as you know, the presidential election. We always... So far Im dreaming of those candidates. I see those candidates before my eyes.
Every night before I go to sleep, sometimes while Im sleeping I love them so much. Cory Booker, Pocahontas, Pocahontas. Ive got more Indian blood in me than Pocahontas, and I have none, I mean, sadly I have none, but I have more than she does. They said to her, "Why do you say youre of Indian heritage?" Well, my mother told my high cheekbones thats the answer.
Do you have any documentation? No, we dont. "Oh, I see. Your high cheekbones." Well I have high cheekbones too. Hey, maybe Im an Indian and Im going to do very well. But think of it. This is her reason. The whole thing has been  but thats OK. You know what, I want to be careful. Im taking out so many of these people, Im hitting them so hard that theyre disappearing and I dont want to do that because I make it somebody thats actually good to run against me and that would not be good.
Ill take out all the easy ones and maybe Ill get stuck with somebody thats actually good, but I dont see any on that side. Well, Sleepy Joe Biden, who -- who ran for president two or three times, you know they say only twice. I think I remember a third time in there. But he had 1% with an arrow pointing left.
That means 1% or less. And then Obama took him off the trash heap while hes one of the people. Remember he challenged me to a fight? "Id like to take him behind the bar." I love that. That would be great. That would not last long. That would not last long. That wouldnt last long. Go like this. Hes down. And hell never get up. He will never get up. He will never get up. Now I got to leave their candidates alone.
Somebody actually said, "Youre hitting these candidates really hard." Hes a non-candidate, you know, Don Mandic. Hes a Da Nang Dick. Hes Da Nang Dick. Thats Blumenthal. He talked about, "When I was in Da Nang province in Vietnam and I was fighting up the hill in Minner going left and right of me theyre dying.
Theyre being struck by bullets but I went back to their rescue. I went back and I got them. And then I made a second attempt and bullets are going left and right and over my shoulders and theyre hitting my men." And I used to think, "Wow, this guy is a pretty brave guy." And then I found out hes a fraud. He never was in Vietnam. And he stopped campaigning because there was no way you could win.
No way. And because its Connecticut, where I guess only a Democrat -- Can you believe this? Thats why Connecticuts such a mess right now. Only a Democrat -- Wait, youre going to see, its a mess. General Electric just moved out. That doesnt help. But Da Nang and Dick and then I see him yesterday talking about a man whos No. 1 at Yale, has like this perfect record.
The most incredible record. One of the reasons I picked him. Hes like a perfect person in Da Nang Dick, who -- who said he was a great war hero and he never saw the country. This wasnt like saying, "Yeah. I was in the army." This is -- this is the guy that said he was charged up Da Nang. Da Nang province right down Da Nang. Hes up that hill and hes taking bullets left and right, and he never saw the place, he was in the reserves cell. Remember that.
And he said, "I demand honesty." This is true, exact words. I demand honesty, integrity and I demand that theres no lying going on, and Im saying, "Wait a minute." I said, "Thats the guy that lied about -- in the worst -- in the history of our country. If you look at it, he lied. And this is one of the people, how bad.
And then you have the Feinstein and you have all the others and you look at whats going on. You dont want those people in office, folks. Youve got to have great Republican. And compare that with what youve seen with John Cornyn, who asked a great question to Dianne and got her a little off base, like you know John Cornyn of Texas.
And Lindsey Graham, who did such a great job. Right. Did a great job. How good was Lindsey? How good was Lindsey? And you know what? He was speaking from the heart. He was speaking. And by the way, took a week but that extra week was a great thing because it showed no corroboration, no nothing. By the way, no nothing. How good was Senator Susan Collins yesterday.
Really, really great. And Chuck Grassley. Ill tell you what, Chuck was great. Hes got to be very happy with what we did on trade. Right, Chuck? From Iowa, great state. And Mitch McConnell, how good, how good? He was tough and smart. He was great. He worked hard and we got ourselves the finest legal mind. One of the finest human beings.
And again what his family took. The horror that they had to endure by these people like Blumenthal and Cory Booker who was a disaster as the mayor of Newark New Jersey. What they had to take was a disgrace. The only reason to vote Democrat is if youre tired of winning. All right. Tired of winning. We want to win, win, win. Never get tired of winning. After years of rebuilding other nations we are finally rebuilding our nation. you see whats happening.
And I just left the United Nations last week, and I can tell you, and everybody else can tell you, and even the fake news can tell you, America is respected again. To create more jobs and rising wages. Republicans passed the biggest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history by far.
We also passed Veterans Choice, 44 years, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor, and we pay for it so they dont have to wait in line for 25 days, 38 days, 14 days, six days. They go out and they see a private doctor, they get themselves a good doctor. We paid the bill. Its frankly so simple but it took 44 years to get it done.
We got it done. Im going to getting it done. Im good at getting it done.Now we also passed, this is 45 years, the VA accountability law to insure anyone who mistreats our veterans will be held accountable, you are fired, get out.
And weve secured a record, $700 million and the next year $716 billion to rebuild our military and to give our brave warriors the largest pay raise in almost a decade.
And at my direction, The Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American Armed Forces the space force, a very serious stuff. Thats happening quickly, its very serious, thats where its at. You know you have to know where its at. Doesnt sound right, but its right. Thats where its at.
Both defense and offense thats where its at. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. You know, before I became president, I looked at what was happening with Iran. They were taken over the Middle East, they were taking Syria. They were taking them.
They were going into Iraq, they were taking everything. Now, they just want to make it, they just want to -- say they have riots in every city. Since I took over that operation, that horrible, horrible deal that was the thick of it. The previous administration gave Iran $150 billion and even crazier, they gave him at $1.8 billion dollars in cash. Cash.
Airplanes. Airplanes full of cash. Fact I got in, I said, "This is the president of the United States. I actually have the power to give away $1.8 billion in cash?" You know what the answer is? Its actually no, they dont. What they did there is a disgrace. They gave them 1.8 in order to have a terrible deal.
Well that was a hostage so they paid $1.8 billion. They paid $1.8 billion for hostages. Can you imagine? And we got our hostages back from North Korea, right? Noting. Zero. And we have a good relationship. And who knows what happens? But I think good things happen. No more missile testing, no more rocket testing, no more nuclear testing.
We got the remains of our great, great heroes from 75 years ago back. And they keep coming back. And we got our hostages back. And good things are happening over there. You know what I always say is this, just before we signed the deal with Canada and Mexico, great deal, I said, "Who knows?" I never like to say -- how could you say? Its a deal.
Who knows? I like to do -- it takes all the pressure off. Who knows? With North Korea, who knows? But I think were doing very well. OK? The fake news says, "Why arent you going faster?" I said, Listen, I just got back three months ago, right. I was there with Kim Jong-un. I was there three months ago. Chairman Kim." They say, "Why arent you going faster?
I said, "What have people done for 75 years? 75. This is three months." And one of the Akers said, "Why has the president given away so much? And I said, "What have I given? I havent given anything." Weve got our hostages back for nothing, out of respect. We got our remains back. We got the testing all stopped including the nuclear testing.
I said, "Tell me what have we given?" "Well, ah, ah, you -- you agreed to meet." Oh, that does cost me very much, I agreed to meet. I like to meet. I like to meet. What the hell we lose by meeting. I asked the previous administration. Now thats what I gave away, I agreed to meet. Can you believe it? These people are sick. I agreed to meet.
Can you imagine how well we do if we actually had fair press? Can you imagine? No, could you imagine? Instead of fake news. I agreed to meet. Im sorry I agreed to meet. And then they said. right. You know, the rhetoric was extremely tough that first couple of months. And President Obama said at my meeting with him he said, "The biggest problem we have by far is North Korea."
They would have gone to war. Millions and millions of people would have been killed. Millions of people. And I said to somebody in their administration. Have you ever talked? Have you ever agreed to meet? Have you ever like sit down and talk? "Well we havent thought about." Oh, I see youre going to war, youre not going to talk.
Well beat anybody. What we have now coming in, Im telling you its the greatest power weve ever had, the greatest power in the world. You know why I have that? Because I dont want to use it. And when you have it, nobody is going to mess with us. OK. Nobody. I dont want to use it. Greatest power in the world.
$716 billion, greatest power in the world. But were doing great. And we have recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Thats the other story I tell. Thats the other story we tell. Thats a big one. Thats a big, big story. You know why? Because other presidents all said, there are many, many presidents, "Were going to do it. Were going to do it."
Then the pressure goes on and they dont do it. And I see why, I dont blame them. Every leader called me, "Dont do it, please. Dont do it, dont do it." You know the story I refused to take their phone calls.
I said, "Tell them Ill call them back on Thursday next week." And Im signing like on Wednesday. Tell him Im calling him back on Thursday. I look forward to speaking to him. I signed the deal. Nows the deal, then I call him back. "Yeah. Hi. How are you doing? Whats up?" Wow. "We wanted to talk to you about Israel but its a little late."
And the embassy, which was going to cost over a billion dollars, we built it for about $400,000, right, you know that, right. And the billion would have taken probably 20 years before you ever got to build it. And we took a piece of land that we own, already own, and it had a building on it. OK building. We fixed the building up a little bit.
We took the big space in the corner. We used even Jerusalem stone, which is a very expensive if youre a building. Jerusalem stone is beautiful. How nice is that? And you know Jerusalem stone in Jerusalem sounds about right. We got it for the right price. And we built it for less than $500,000. Now think of it.
And we opened it up and its open now, we have our embassy. So we saved a billion dollars in twenty years and we have our embassy. We could do that with hundreds of this. For years you watched as your leaders apologize for America and now you have a president who is standing up for America. Were standing up for your values. Were standing up for Kansas and were standing proudly.
Were standing proudly for our great national anthem, right. I just helped Canada and the NFL make a deal that theyve been trying to make for years. Can you believe it? Canada was taking advantage of the NFL. The NFL couldnt get it done. It took me about two seconds because its pea -- Its, you know, its a lot of money but its not compared to corn, and crops, and dairy, and milk, and cars, and steel, and everything else. Its peanuts. I say you got to take care of it right. Because I want to help American companies. It took me like two minutes and we get it done. And I got a call from the commissioner of the NFL and I thought he was calling me to ask me to stop haunting them about standing for the American flag and for our national..
And he didnt. He called me to thank me. He said, "The previous administration could not get it done. And you got it done. We didnt even know what you were trying to do it." So now theyll have a lot more money to give to their players and their players will still hate me, but thats OK. Stand for it, just as long as they stand. Just as long as they stand for our flag and our anthem I dont care how they feel about that.
But to continue our incredible momentum, you have to get your friends your family your neighbors your co-workers and get out and vote Republican, we need more people in D.C.. We dont have enough. Vote to send Kris Kobach to the governors mansion and vote to send Steve Watkins to Congress. We always vote for Trump.
A vote for Republicans is a vote for lower taxes, less regulation, and more products made right here in the USA. Finally, finally. We want it made here. Its a vote to respect our borders, respect our constitution, and respect the heroes of law enforcement, and thats what they are. Theyre our heroes.
And a vote for Republicans is a vote to reject the Democrat politics of anger and division, and destruction, and to reclaim Americas true heritage and righteous destiny. Were losing that with these crazy loco people. To everyone in this room tonight, thats a lot of people, to every citizen watching across our land.
This is your time to choose. Its a time to choose whether we turn backward to the failure and frustration of the past or whether we continue forward into a future of American greatness. Its not up to the media. Its not up to the pundits. Its up to you to decide your fate.
And remember this, what happened in 2016, and whats happening even more so now, I believe, because Ive produced, and people see I produced, one of them said, "He made a lot of promises and he actually produced more than he made promises."
I mean, you know, think about it. I did. I did. You have the power with your vote. To defend your family, your community, your country, and everything we hold sacred, and righteous, and true. Loyal citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country, returning power to every day great American patriots.
The state of Kansas was set up by tough pioneer men and strong women, who defied danger and brave the wilderness to build a beautiful life on the plains. Beautiful. Beautiful. Beautiful. Strong Women, strong women, strong.
Im sorry, fellas, stronger than the men, Im sorry, fellas. Strong. They didnt have a lot of money, they didnt have a lot of luxury but they all had one thing in common, they love their families, they love their country, and they loved their god.
These courageous patriots did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy and destroy our proud and great American heritage. For the sake of our freedom and for the sake of our children we are going to work, we are going to fight and we are going to win, win, win.
We will not ban. We will not break. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down. We will never surrender. And we will always fight on to victory. Because we are Americans and our hearts bleed red, white, and blue. We are one people. One Family. And one glorious nation under God.
