Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in San Jose, CA|June 2, 2016
Thank you. Latinos for Trump. Thats what I like. I love that. Latinos, were doing well with Latinos. Nobody knows about it yet. Were bringing in so many jobs in. You watch what happens. The Hispanics, we love the Hispanics. Thank you, everybody. So, so I said to my people, what the hell are you doing?
Whos going to come tonight? You have San Francisco playing the game tonight. And look at this crowd. This is unbelievable. Well, well speak a little bit faster tonight so you go home to the game, OK? No, no, no. Lets take our time. Yeah, anyway. Well, thank you all very much. Its been an amazing period of time.
You know, you had the 1,237, right? 1,237 delegates and I promised everybody, I told everybody we were going to hit that number and now were going to hit a number thats way, way above, way, way above. Remember, they all said, oh you have the convention and the convention is going to be a big deal. And I said, were not going to the convention for that.
Were going to the convention as victors before the convention ever starts. So were going to have a great time in Ohio. Were going to have a great time in Cleveland, Ohio. And I really appreciate this turnout. This is fantastic. I really do. So on Tuesday, you got a big vote coming up. I mean, honestly, we already won.
But in terms of mandate, in terms of going out there and really getting it. I hope you can go out, vote and, you know, we have a few states, right? Its the end. Its the end now. Heres whats important, in the history of the Republican Party, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Ronald Reagan, everybody, everybody. In history, we have the most votes ever cast for a Republican candidate.
Never happened before. And by millions, by millions, by millions of votes. And the amazing thing about that is, I think, we do even better in November because were going to take a lot of people from the Democrats. You know, Bernie Sanders, Bernie Sanders, the system was rigged on him. I think were going to get a lot of people from Bernie.
Well see what happens. I mean, I watched Hillary today. It was pathetic. It was pathetic. It was so sad to watch. And you know, shes up there and supposed to be a foreign policy speech, it was a political space. Had nothing to do with foreign policy. She made a political speech tonight, folks, and it was a pretty pathetic deal.
But listen, on Tuesday, so we have California, we have Montana, we have New Jersey, we have New Mexico, we have South Dakota. So we have those states, and thats the end. And at the end of the night, we will be many, many, many millions of votes ahead, of the highest vote getter in history, and that tells you something.
Now, youre a hell of a crowd. You dont like basketball very much. You are a great crowd, man. Thank you. I love you. I love you. I love you, folks. Im telling you. So. We, we are in a movement. Theyve never seen anything like it. Some people, many people, even people that hate me, the pundits, who are totally dishonest, by the way, but thats OK. Some of these pundits have even said, almost all of them that theres never been anything like this thats ever happened in the United States.
Never been. Amazing. Yesterday, we had an amazing crowd. We had these airport hangars packed with people. And a friend of mine said, I loved your speech yesterday. You know, its on all the networks. Its all over the place. He said, were there any people there? I said, yeah, it could have been like 20,000 people.
I couldnt tell. They never showed the people. They never ever showed it. But who cares? Do we agree? Who cares? People are getting it. People are getting the idea. People are getting the idea. So what we have to do is this, we have a movement going on. Were on the cover of every newspaper every magazine, Time Magazine many times.
I just learned theyre doing yet another cover on Trump. I love that. You know, Time magazine is a good magazine. You grow up reading Time Magazine. Whoever thought youd be on the cover of Time Magazine, especially so much. And its all about the movement. Its all about the fact that were taking back our country.
And by the way, were going to be very inclusive to everybody. Were going to be very inclusive to everybody. I know we have a lot of people, theyre angry at whats happened. We have a lot of smart people that are making less money now than they did 18 years ago and theyre working twice as hard, OK? We are going to bring our jobs back, folks.
Were going to bring back sanity to our country. Gonna bring those jobs back. And were not going to let the jobs go so easy. You know, I talk all the time about Ford and Carrier and Nabisco, where they leave and they move their plants to Mexico and other places and theres no consequence. Theres going to be a big consequence.
Let me give you an example, OK? Its so easy. For six years, Ive been watching politicians saying, we have to stop the onslaught of people leaving -- of companies leaving our country. Ive been watching this in amazement. I never thought I was going to be doing this. Have I done a good job, OK? Have I done a good job?
You know, its funny before I get it. So Ive been doing this now for 10 months and they had an article one of the magazines said, it was 10 months versus 200 and some odd hundred years of experience because we ran against 17 people. And if you add up all of their tenures, 200 and something years. So for ten months, with no experience, we are doing well, folks, Ill tell you.
But dont let the no experience fool you. Ive been on the other side of the equation. I hate to tell you this. I was very much a part of the establishment. I was a big donor. And I was on the other side. But I know the system better than anybody else because I know how it works on both sides. Ive been there so long.
I know so much about lobbyists and special interests or whatever the hell you want. And with me youre getting me -- Im representing just you, just you. So in the primaries -- on the primaries, I spent $55 million of my money. And in fact, somebody said, I guess, for legal purposes, they put it down as a loan where I loan myself $55 million.
I will say to you tonight, Ive been saying it all the time, Im going to term it -- I dont even want it as a loan. I dont even know why. When somebody does it, they always put it down as a loan. Im not paying myself back. Were wiping out that loan. Ive mean for $55 million I turned down, I turned down and it always was intended to be that way.
Sometimes the lawyers do things you say, why are you doing that? They almost cant explain it. But it seems that many people do that. But were terminating that. Millions and millions of dollars was offered to me and I said, no, Im not interested in it. Now what were doing is were working with the Republican National Committee.
They have treated me fairly, by the way, or I guess I wouldnt be. Yeah, I think I would have been no matter what because frankly, we won by such landslides and no matter what they wanted to do, right? We won so big. No matter what they wanted to do. You know, I tell the story all the time about the prize fighters.
They go out and they fight in somebodys home territory and I know so many of the prize fighters. I have a lot of prize fights. Ive always liked it. Ive held many more Mike Tyson fights than anybody else. But Ive had a lot of fights. And Ill say, why are you going to that community? A lot of money there, Mr. Trump.
A lot of money. But if you come to a judges call, theyre going to rule against you if its a close fight. Not even if its a close fight, theyre gonna rule against you period. They said, theres only one way to solve that Mr. Trump, I got to knock him out. And thats what we did. Thats what we did because its a rigged system.
It wasnt meant for me to win. The system isnt set up like that. But we won in New Hampshire so big. I love New Hampshire. Were going to solve the -- you have a tremendous drug problem, heroin, in New Hampshire. Were going to solve that problem. We are gonna to solve the problem. Its coming in from the southern border.
We want to solve the drugs that are pouring in to our country. Were gonna solve it, OK? Were gonna solve it. But we won New Hampshire -- were going to build that wall dont even think about it, dont even think about it. And whos going to pay for the wall? Who? 100% right, OK? 100%. You know, I was watching, coming in I have the television and Im watching.
And one of the shows had a poll came out. And I like the poll because Im doing very well and in some of the polls now, Im beating Hillary Clinton and quite easily. We love that. We love it. Fox had a very good poll came out a couple of days ago. Were number one and were right around. Believe me, folks, when you watch her today, she does not look presidential, that I can tell you.
She doesnt. This is not a president. Four more years of this stuff and Ill tell you, were not going to have a country left, believe me. And if I win, believe me, make America great again and its gonna to be greater than ever before. We have a chance to be greater than ever before. Greater than ever before.
But a poll came out and it said, do you think Trump is going to build the wall? These people just dont understand. Remember when I first announced, they said, you think Trump is serious? And the pundits would say, well, hes not going to run. And then if he runs -- so that I announce that hes running. But if he runs, hes only going to have fun for a couple of weeks, build up his brand, my brand.
I get killed. I had such a beautiful brand. I get killed with my brand with his stuff. You know why? If you get 55%, you have a landslide. That means at 45% of the people hate you. In the old days, I had 100% of the people that love me. Now, I have 55% of the people that love me. But really more than that, if you look at the last -- thats OK dont worry about it. Hes very quiet.
Let him enjoy himself. I want him to enjoy. We need our protesters. I love -- no, no leave him alone. Thats OK. Thats all right. Now leave him alone. We got to be nice. Dont forget. Dont forget. The only one I hear are you people. I dont hear him, all right? All right. Dont hurt him. See, the way I say that, Ive learned.
Dont hurt him. Dont hurt him, please. No, hes fine. I would have left him here because he was fine. But but here -- wow look at all the people that are forming back there. This is crazy. Man. It is true though. I said, where the hell -- these people are going to be at the game. I dont know how many people are at the game.
But this is better. Is this more fun than the basketball game? And you know whats more importantly, honestly, its a lot more productive and I like basketball and all of that. This is about America first. This is about putting our country first. Its about showing people that were not going to be listening to stupid people anymore, that were not going to have people making deals like the Iran deal, like the Sergeant Bergdahl deal.
They get -- I mean, think of it, they get five of the people that theyve wanted for eight years and we get Sergeant Bergdahl, a traitor, where five people were killed looking for him. These are the deals, the five for one -- I call him the five-for-one president. So were not gonna do that stuff anymore, folks.
Those days are over. The days, the days of the Iran deal where they get $150 billion. We get nothing in that deal. Nothing, except laughed at and scorned. And then I watched Hillary Clinton, she started the foundation of that deal and now shes proud of it. But shes only proud of it for one reason. You know why?
Because Obama wants it. Anything Obama wants, shes going forward with. Because you know why? She doesnt want to go to jail. Thats why, folks. Thats why. Remember, Hillary Clinton used to hate Obama. She used to hate him. Bill Clinton hated him. Bill Clinton hated him. He called Bill Clinton a racist.
You remember that? Bill Clinton hated him and Hillary Clinton hated Obama. Now its, yes, sir, Mr. President, sir. Yes, sir. What would you like? What would you like me to say here, sir? The only reason shes behaving like this and the only reason shes been dragged so far left, believe me, is she doesnt want to go to jail over the emails, OK? Believe me thats the only reason.
One simple reason. Because you know what, folks, I used to say, leave it up to the lawyers. I have watched so many lawyers on so many different networks, I have read so much about the e-mails. Folks, honestly, shes guilty as hell. Shes guilty as hell. And the fact that they even -- and this is true. The fact that they even allow her to participate in this race is a disgrace to the United States.
Its a disgrace to our nation. Its a disgrace. So well see. Well see what happens. I dont know. Ive always had great confidence in the FBI. I must tell you. I have great respect. I know some FBI folks. Ive always had great confidence in them. I cant believe that they would let this go. When you look at General Petraeus, he got the equivalent of two years.
He did nothing compared to her. You look at some of these other people, their lives have been destroyed. What she did is 20 times worse, what she did. And now her guys are taking the Fifth Amendment. The whole thing, its a mess. And she keeps running like theres nothing -- no problem. Im telling you, this is a great system we have.
We have a great country. Were gonna make it a lot greater, by the way. But we have a great -- we love our country. Look, we love our country. And I dont believe our country can let her get away with this crime. I dont believe it. So well see. And you know what, if they do let her get away with it, it will be a big topic of conversation on the campaign trail, I can tell you that, folks.
And then if I win, its called the five-year statute of limitations, if I win. Now everything is going to be fair. But Im sure the attorney general will take a very good look at it from a fair standpoint, OK? Im sure. I think its disgraceful. So we have a very important race. Were doing amazingly well.
Some of the pundits are saying the most phenomenal thing theyve ever seen in government. Newt Gingrich said the other night, theres never been anything like this, and hes a historian, a great historian. Theres never been anything like this in the history of our country. We go like this crowd, we have great crowds, right?
We always have great crowds. I mean, look at this place. This is amazing. Hey cameras, why didnt you take a look at this, please, if you would. They dont turn. They dont turn. The other night crazy Bernie, hes a crazy guy, but hes doing OK. He is nuts. He is a total nut job. But you know what? Hes doing OK. And by the way, he does get the second biggest audience.
Its nothing like us. Not even close. And everybody knows it. But heres the difference. So the other night, they said, ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump. Heres Donald Trump. I had like a tremendous -- I dont know, close to 20,000 people and this happens all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, Donald Trump is speaking now and hes just finishing up and ba, ba, ba. Then when everyone leaves, they usually have somebody standing there.
The place is empty. It looks like a garbage dump, all this, everything gone. And theyll say, Donald Trump just spoke and ba, ba, ba and then lets fall asleep, OK? Then they have Bernie Sanders. He had 3,000 people. Bernie Sanders had a tremendous crowd tonight of 3,000 people. Unbelievable crowd. And Id have 20,000 and they dont mention it. Just like when I said to the cameras, turn around and show these people.
Even during this big game, in this territory, its amazing to me. I mean, this is -- its incredible. But honestly, even coming here, I said to my people, are you crazy to be having it at that location? Its a great honor. But look, we have to vote. We have to do a mandate. We have to win. And one of the biggest reasons we have to do this for: United States Supreme Court Justices.
I put a very big -- I put a very, very big list of great justices. Thats OK. Will you behave? Where is he? Where is? Where? Thats all right. Leave her. Let her stay. Thats all right. Shes got a little Bernie sign up. You know, its given to her -- did Bernie give it to you himself? Its all right. Sad, actually.
No, thats OK. Let her stay. Theres no problem. I dont mind. I dont mind. You know, they send him in with the little Bernie sign made in China. You know, its a little Bernie sign. Its a pretty sad thing. I mean, unfortunately, I was talking about the system. So the Republican system was rigged, but we won by knockout.
The Bernie system is totally rig. They have superdelegates. Darling, theres no way he can win but keep your sign hanging high, OK? Theres no way, which is a shame. Now Bernie and I do agree on one thing, we agree that the United States is getting ripped off like crazy on trade. So on that, I agree. Thats why I think a lot of the people are going to come to me when this is all over.
The Bernie people are going to be voting for Trump because thats such a big thing. Our wealth is being drained out of us. Its being just taken like were a bunch of dopes, like were a bunch of dopes. This year, we have a trade deficit with China of $505 billion. We have a massive trade deficit with Vietnam, with Japan, with Mexico.
You can name any country, virtually any country we deal with, we have a trade deficit. It used to be the other way around when we were smart and strong, but we havent been smart and strong for many, many decades and were gonna change that around, folks. Were gonna change it around. Were going to change it. Now, we have to change it. We cant keep going like this.
We cant -- its not like we have a choice. Oh gee, lets go like this for another 25 years. If were gonna save our Social Security and Im the only one thats gonna save it, believe me, without cuts. If were going to save our Medicare, if were going to save all of these things that we have to save, we have to bring our jobs back and we have to make sure that nobody is taking our jobs anymore, folks.
And were gonna do that. Were gonna do it. So remember a couple of things. Hillary Clinton wants to abolish the Second Amendment. She wants to abolish it, abolish it. The NRA, National Rifle Association, last week endorsed Donald Trump. I believe, its the earliest endorsement theyve ever given to a presidential candidate.
And I give that credit to my sons. Theyve been members for a long time, so have I. But my sons are fantastic and they really -- and by the way, I have to say this, Wayne and Kris and all of the people, the people that Ive met at the NRA. These are great people. Theyre great Americans. They love the people of this country.
They want the people of this country to be safe. These are great people. So I want to thank them for the endorsement, National Rifle Association. OK, so let me go back for a second. So I said that Carrier and Nabisco, Ford, all these -- theyre all leaving. Heres what happens. Lets say, that a company like Carrier announces theyre gonna to leave.
Im going to say very simply and its going to be very, very strong and very, very simple. Folks, if you leave heres the consequence. Youre going to be taxed at the rate of 35% for every single air conditioning unit that you bring back into our country, OK? OK? Very soon. Now, Ive been watching politicians in Washington for seven years trying to figure out how to stop companies from leaving.
Theyre all leaving. You know, I shouldnt do it because Ill ruin your night, but I have stats on San Jose. Not good. Not good. Youre losing your manufacturing, one in three manufacturing jobs lost. Hillary ran up a $1 trillion trade deficit with China while she was secretary of state. So many different things.
Since Clinton, Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, probably the worst economic deal weve ever made in this country. Since then, California has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs. I mean, I could go on except its statistics, folks, done by my statistician. He thinks its the most exciting job in the world.
I dont wanna depress you, OK? But its just terrible. NAFTA was signed by Bill Clinton. Its probably. The worst economic deal made by our country, maybe ever. You look at New England, you look at upstate New York, you look at way out on the island in New York, the places have been wiped out. Pennsylvania, I love Pennsylvania.
Were going to win Pennsylvania, by the way. We won all of these. You know, in the primaries, they said, well, well stop him right after New York. So we had Pennsylvania landslide. We had Maryland landslide. We had Connecticut landslide. We had Rhode Island and Delaware, a landslide. Then they came to Indiana that was gonna be the firewall, remember, Indiana.
Bobby Knight. Bobby Knight. Bobby, 900 wins. And Bobby said, I want to endorse you man. I want to endorse you. Youre the guy that can turn this country around. And Bobby Knight walked into an arena, we had 20,000 people and they gave him a hand for five minutes. I said, you know, this is one of the few endorsements I think thats going to work out very nicely.
And I won the state of Indiana in a landslide, in a landslide. And I think and Im not even talking about landslide, but I think we can win the state of California and win it pretty substantially. Now, Ive been told by all these geniuses, you know, all these brilliant guys, they all say, you cant win the state of California.
I think we can. Look at a crowd. I mean, look at this crowd. During the, during the Warriors game. Look at this. This is crazy. During the big basketball game. In fact, Im thinking about leaving and watching them myself. Bye everybody. No, I mean, during the game. So heres the story, heres the story. I think were going to run hard in California and Im gonna run hard in New York too.
These are two states that no other Republican candidate would ever even try run, right? But Im gonna run hard in California. You got to be with me. I think we can win California. And if we win California, the election is over, folks. Its over. We win. And then we will make America great again, believe me. Its over now.
Now with that being said, Hillary has raised a billion dollars and plans to raise more than a billion dollars and she will do negative ads all over the place. Now, heres the good news. When I won Florida in a landslide, won it in a massive landslide, I had more negative ads. In fact, I went to my people, I called up Ivanka.
Did anyone ever hear of Ivanka? I called up my wife, Melania. I said, I got a problem. There are so many negative ads. Its impossible. Theres no way I can win. And then I ended up winning 66 out of 67 counties. It has never been done before and won in a massive landslide, Florida. And I said, do ads work anymore?
Its like -- so Hillary has earmarked over $100 million early on for negative ads against Donald Trump. And believe me, folks, their false ads, they are so false -- some of them arent that false actually. Mostly. You know, its a problem, when you do as much as Ive done, Ive done so many deals, Ive built a great company, I filed my papers with the election group and when you know when you look at that, I mean, you look at those papers, believe me, they I built a great, great company.
Nobody likes to look. Hey, believe me, if it wasnt, youd be reading about it. It would -- nobody wants to talk about it. It was like a feeding frenzy. I built a company thats worth more than $10 billion. I started off with a million dollar loan. I always hear how I started off with a $200 million gift.
And my sister called me, she said, really? How did that happen? $200 million. Believe me. So you are going to see something thats gonna be so spectacular with what we do here. I built a great company and you know what, in many ways, this is going to be easier. This is going to be easier because we have such unbelievable momentum going here with what were doing.
We are gonna do things that nobody has ever seen before. Weve already done that. When they are saying, Bill OReilly, in his life he said, this is the single greatest political phenomena hes ever witnessed. Its pretty good. Its pretty good. We are going to do things that youve never seen before and were going to get along great with these countries.
You know, I watch Hillarys thing tonight, which was hard. It was like, its like taking  You ever hear  Sleep all night. Its hard to stay awake when you know Im not a big sleeper. I think she could make more money. If she made speeches and sold them for people that cant sleep. It was hard.
But she lies so much. She said, Donald Trump wants Japan to put in nuclear weapons. No, no, no, thats not what it is. In a deal, you always have to be prepared to walk. We have a lot of business people. We have four or five of them that I know that are friends of mine. Do you know I own a big chunk of the Bank of America building, right?
So I want you to make San Francisco good, but I own a big, big chunk of that building. And I will tell you, in a deal, you have to be prepared to walk. No, you cant go into a deal and say, Im not walking. Now, crooked Hillary said, we will always stand by our partners. We will never leave. We will stand by our partners.
We never ever will leave. These are great allies. She said China is jealous of us. And she said, who else is jealous? She said, oh China and Russia are jealous of our relationships. Theyre not jealous. They think were stupid. We give them free defense. They think were stupid. Shes saying that China and Russia are essentially envious or jealous of our partnership with all of these people that are taking our money.
So heres the story, heres what I say, remember this, and I have to tell you, the New York Times is a terrible newspaper. Its failing. But David Sanger, very good writer, did a very accurate story. The Washington Post is a totally dishonest newspaper, totally. I mean, they are the worst. But the New York Times, pretty bad.
Hey, how about the story they did a week ago about Donald Trump and women and then all the women came back and they said, thats not true. We love Donald Trump, right? Right? The story was a fraud. In fact, I saw the women, I said, oh, thats great news for me. Theyre gonna say good and then I read this stuff.
I said, man, I cant believe that she would say it or she would say it. So you had Carrie Prejean and she said, no way, I didnt say that. And you had Roanne and she said, theres no way. I have great respect for Donald Trump. He treated me great. He was a great guy. You had all these women. You had one woman said, I told her not to eat that piece of candy.
This is my -- I mean, I had a lot of friends call me up and they say, were really disappointed in you man. Tell your wife. And this was a woman, OK, like 25 years ago. I put her in charge of construction of a building. She was fine, OK? Then she went to another company. She want to come back. She begged me to come back.
But I gave her a job remember, her name was Rest. I gave her a job. That no other woman had ever been in charge of building a massive skyscraper in New York. No, Trump Tower. I gave her the job. She went to another company thought probably she got $2 more only because she worked for me. She got $2 more. Then all of a sudden that didnt work out.
For many years, shes been writing me letters saying, youre the greatest, youre the greatest. Id love to come back to work for you. Youre the greatest. She even wrote me one letter saying that Im not sexist. I said, what the hell does that have to do? She wrote me a letter or an e-mail. I love e-mails.
You cant erase e-mails. You cant erase them. I love them. Because I said to Rona, my executive assistant, I said Rona, didnt this Barbara write me emails wanting to come back? Well, Ill find out. She comes back two minutes later, shes got a whole pile of e-mail. By the way, Hillary Clinton is missing 30,000 e-mails.
Theyve been deleted. 30,000. 30,000 e-mails. And remember, I said, I was a counterpunch here? I am. After what she said about me today in her phony speech. That was a phony speech. That was a Donald Trump hit job. I will say this, Hillary Clinton has to go to jail, OK? She has to go to jail. It was a phony hit job.
Shes guilty as hell. So this woman. So Barbara is praising me that Donald Trump is great. Mr. Trump, Id love to have a job. Could I go use a hotel. All this stuff. And then she writes a letter that Im not sexist, OK? I never had anybody -- by the way, anybody that writes a letter without the words being mentioned that youre really good and youre not sexist.
Anybody puts out that letter then you know theyre trouble, OK? Dont hire that person because you know theyre trouble because that means its right in their minds. Does that make sense to anybody? Out of nowhere. So this terrible person, I gave her a job, the opportunity of a lifetime. She took the job, I got it completed.
She was gone. Wanted to come back. I didnt take her. Remember this. Now, she writes a book and the book is great about me. She said great things about me. That was four or five years ago. All of a sudden, I see these sleazebags. This guy named, Barbaro, who is an absolute sleazebag. Terrible writer. Hes a terrible writer.
He wrote the story on the women and he was very embarrassed, and they should do a retraction of the story or an apology. If they were real people, they would do an apology. But the other woman that was -- that didnt apologize was this woman. So I gave this woman the break of a lifetime, you talk about breaking the glass ceiling.
And she comes out and she said bad things. Now, about the worst thing she said was that I told her not to have a piece of candy, OK? But can you imagine -- but they never called me once to ask about these people. Because if they did, I would have given her 20 e-mails and they wouldnt have been able to write the story.
But they dont do that because these newspapers and the media are totally dishonest people, folks. Remember that. Totally dishonest. How about this. When I was making a speech in Iowa, I said, lets raise some money for the vets, right? I raised -- think of this. Lets raise some money from that. I raised -- I started saying, you know, before the event, I figured maybe we can raise a half a million or a million, well 2 million.
I dont know. Then all of a sudden, a lot of guys -- thank you, man. Youre a vet? Thank you. You know what Im going to say, right? Thank you. Great people. And were going to take care of the vets, believe me. Were going to take care of their medical. Were going to take care of the vets. So I said, lets raise him.
I have no obligation. I was supposed to make a speech like this in Iowa. So Im -- start the speech and during this speech, somewhere I said, lets raise some money for the vets. A friend of mine was there, Phil Ruffin, he gave $1 million. Another friend, Ike Perlmutter gave a million dollars. Great guy.
Another guy, Carl Icahn, great guy, gave a half a million dollars. Stuart Ross gave a million. I said, wow, were doing well. And during the course, I said, lets see if we can do $3 million, $4 million $5 million, $6 million. It doesnt matter. Whatever the hell the number. And a lot of money came in. We distribute it. We distribute it. All of a sudden, Im getting the worst publicity of my life.
So heres the final number, but the number could go up because theres more coming in. Because we have to vet a lot of these places. You know, you cant send him a check for $200,000 you dont even know who the hell youre sending it to. So you watch my press conference the other day. So the Washington Post, which is just a ploy for Amazon so that Amazon doesnt pay taxes, so that Amazon doesnt get accused of monopolistic practices because frankly, theyre putting all the retailers out of business, OK? You want to know the truth.
And the politicians are afraid of them because the guy bought the Washington Post. But heres the story. So they start doing stories like, how much did he give? How much? Wheres the money? When is it gonna be delivered? I said, I dont care. Whatever it is, it is. I wrote a check for $1 million, by the way, $1 million.
And I sent it -- and I was gonna give it to four or five companies, we couldnt vet them. I just said, it was too complicated. So I gave it to one company, if thats great, one group. We gave it to just a great group, the Marines. The Marines is great, a Marine base. OK, so listen to this. So heres the ad. I raised almost $6 million.
$5.6 million has been distributed. I give -- you know, its not easy. I had a lot of people working on it. Its a lot of work. And youre raising it and youre giving and youre doing a lot of things. And youre calling in favors from friends. Frankly, they give you money for other things if you wanted to do it. So I raised almost $6 million, remember this, for the veterans, which we love.
I got nothing but bad publicity. I got nothing but bad publicity. And then a group forms outside, a small group, like a few people, 10 people, and theyre veterans against Trump. And I said, how can they be against me I raised all this money. It turns out they were sent there by Hillary Clinton. Its -- honestly, folks, its a disgrace.
So Im so proud of it. Heres the good news, heres the good news. Want the good news? I have received so many tweets and e-mails and phone calls and everything, letters from the incredible veterans thanking me for what I did because they get it. They get it. And I didnt have to do it. I didnt have to do it. But you know, the bad part of that story -- Im so glad I did it anyway and most people understand.
You know, theres one guy said, wait a minute, he raised all this money. What did he do wrong? And I gave it to great groups. Actually, one group said, I think like 30-some-odd groups, many, many groups. One group said, one of the groups he gave money to was not great. I said, sorry, folks. Unbelievable headline.
So look, heres the story and the bad part. Other people like me, well see what happened to me, where I got nothing but bad publicity. And theyre going to say, Im never gonna do that again. Im never gonna do it. So you have guys that would be inclined to do it and theyre already saying this. If rich guys are calling me saying, man, you shouldnt have done it. I was under no obligation whatsoever to do it. I just said, lets see, if we can raise some money for the vets.
Thats how it started. We raised much more than I ever thought possible. And I got nothing but hits from the New York Times and the dirty Washington Post, which is -- it is a disgusting newspaper. You know what they have? This all Amazon money. They have 22 reporters on me doing stories, 22. I get calls every hour.
Hope, did anyone ever hear of Hope Hicks? Where is Hope Hicks? Hope she gets calls every half hour, hour. This is the Washington Post. Were doing a story on a deal Mr. Trump did in 1973. I said, man, thats a long time and I dont have a good memory. Thats a long time ago. They want to do anything. They are a disgusting -- now they say, theyre doing a book.
You know what theyre doing? Theyre taking all of the bad stories and theyre just putting it in, sealing it put and doing a book. These are dishonest people folks, let me tell you. But were not finished because see, I dont care. Other guys wouldnt say this. A politician wouldnt say this. Theyd say, oh, the Washington Post.
I dont care. I couldnt care less because the people understand. So for the vets, I am very happy I raised that money for you vets. Im very happy. Even though it got me a lot of bad ink, Im very happy. Im very happy. So -- and I want to thank you. Thank you. You know somebody said, you have thick skin.
And I said, I really do. When I do something wrong and we all do things wrong, I guess, right? Not too often, but we do things wrong. When I do things wrong and the press writes badly about me, I can handle that. In fact, I congratulate them. I say, its fine. When you do things that are good things and they try and make it look like its bad thats when its not fair and thats when you have to fight back.
You have to fight for your rights folks, remember that that. You have to fight for your rights. So heres the story. Were gonna build our military, bigger, better and stronger than ever before. And I was against the war in Iraq and Hillary Clinton was in for it. You know, now shes saying, Donald Trump, do you trust him with the nukes?
Let me tell you, my temperament is so much tougher and so much better than her temperament. And by the way, we need a tough temperament. And all of these countries, and remember this, all of these countries that are our allies. She talks about our allies. Our allies think were very stupid people because we defend Japan and Im OK with that.
But we cant defend him and lose a fortune and thats whats happening, right? We cant. We are not a rich country. Were a poor country. Were a country that owes $19 trillion, soon to be $21 trillion. We have Obamacare, which is a disaster. Did you see in Texas today? Blue Cross Blue Shield in Texas, Blue Cross Blue Shield Texas just announced they go through Obamacare that theyre going to have to raise it up 60%, 60%. In other words, youre gonna have a 60% increase.
Blue Cross Blue Shield Texas. This is gonna happen all over. A lot of these numbers are going to do on November 1st. Obama is trying to make it so that instead of November 1st, its going to be December after the election. We cant let him do that because Ill tell you what. Just on that point alone, they lose the election.
On guns alone, Hillary Clinton loses the election on the Second Amendment, the Second Amendment. So were going to rebuild our military. Our military is very sadly depleted. You have to see the numbers, the number of ships we have compared to 15, 20 years ago. The number of soldiers, the number of everything, our equipment is old.
