Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump on Tax Reform in St. Charles, Missouri|November 29, 2017
I told you that we would be saying Merry Christmas again, right?  And its great to be back in Missouri, sign of a lot of good things, because youre doing really well. And I want to thank Governor Greitens, and Attorney General Hawley, who, by the way, Josh -- wheres Josh? Josh, our next Senator. Where is he?
Hes going to be a great Senator, and he wants to see a major tax cut. I think I can speak for him, right? And your current Senator does not want to see a tax cut. Thats not good. Thats not good. Wants your taxes to go up. Secretary Mnuchin, whos doing such a fantastic job. Thank you.
And Linda McMahon, everybody knows, administrator, small business became a big business under Linda. Shes helping a lot of people. Thank you very much, Linda.
I especially want to thank Missouris incredible Congressional delegation. Sam Graves. Wheres Sam? You all here? Yeah. They all flew in with me. They wouldnt miss that flight. Vicky Hartzler. Vicky? Thank you. Thank you, Vicky.
Billy Long, who I think was my first endorser in the entire country, practically, Billy, right? Thank you, Billy. Blaine Luetkemeyer. Blaine? Thank you, Blaine. And he was great on television today. I watched him. I got up early, and I watched you on -- that was a good interview. Thank you. Very much in favor of tax cuts.
Jason Smith and Ann Wagner. Thank you, Jason. Thank you, Ann. And you know, I have two others that -- I have a lot of -- I have a lot of faith in Faith. Sally Faith. Wheres Sally, your mayor. Hi, Sally. Thanks, Sally. And Eric Schmitt, Missouri state treasurer. Thank you. Thank you, Eric. Youre doing a great job.
Just three months ago, we came to this state to launch our plan to bring back Main Street by cutting taxes for American families and small businesses. Today Ive come back to this incredible state to spend an afternoon with its amazing citizens -- you are amazing -- to help push our plan for historic tax cuts right across that finish line. Were going to do that.
With your help we can usher a thrilling new era of opportunity and growth for this nation that we love so much. Tax cuts have already passed the House of Representatives.  Big ones.
The eyes of the world now turn to the United States Senate. A successful vote in the Senate this week will bring us one giant step closer to delivering an incredible victory for the American people. Massive tax cuts and reform -- I dont even mention the word "reform
You know, for years they have not been able to get tax cuts, many, many years since Reagan. And the problem was, they talked about tax reform, not tax cuts. I said, dont call it reform; call it tax cuts and reform. So every once in awhile well add the name "reform
We cannot sit idly by and watch ourselves losing in competition to other countries as they continue to take away our jobs, because their tax codes are more competitive and less burdensome than ours.
Thats why we must cut our taxes, reduce economic burdens and restore Americas competitive edge. Were going to do that too, and its already happening. Look whats happening with our markets. People get it.
If we do this, then American will win again like never ever before.  A vote to cut taxes is a vote to put America first again. We want to do that.  We want to put America first again. Its time to take care of our workers, to protect our communities, and to rebuild our great country.
You know, we have spent almost $7 trillion in the Middle East over the last 16 years, $7 trillion. Now Im taking care of it. Were doing numbers like ISIS has never seen before. Were wiping them out, the terrorists. Theyre bad.
And all of that, but weve spent almost $7 trillion. We could have rebuilt our country four times over. And were going to start spending here. Were going to start spending here.
And with that being said, were going to protect our country, whether its North Korea or anybody -- were going to protect our country like never before. Were going to build up our military and make our product here and make our planes and our boats and our everything here. But were going to build up our military.
But weve got to start focusing on our country. Thats why Im saying America first. Make America great again. Youve never heard that expression.
All those hats. All those -- theyve never heard that expression before. That was a good expression, and it is a true expression, and its already happening, and long ahead of schedule.
In fact today, some numbers came out that people havent seen in many, many years. This beautiful city of St. Charles is the perfect place to deliver the message that I want to deliver. Its the place where Americas past and future come to life on its historic brick- lined Main Street, nice street. Do you agree?
It was along these very streets that in 1804, the great American explorers, Lewis and Clark, gathered their final supplies before setting out on their very historic expedition of discovery. I have to say, I didnt really know that until two days ago.  Hey? See, now the world is watching. Look at all the fake news back there. Theyre all...  Theyre all watching.
Today, more than two centuries later, a new generation of American pioneers begins its own adventure, gathering inside the startups and the storefronts of Main Streets across the country, blazing new trails into totally uncharted territory of business and technology, and once again, leading our nation into a future of limitless potential. Its what we have in this country. We have the greatest people. Its the greatest country. I love this country so much.
Our country was not treated properly for a long time. Were treating it properly. Were treating it with love, and with this. Weve got to treat it with this.  And today, just as its always been, Main Street is the heart of our economy, the soul of our community, and the birthplace of American dreams.
But over the years, crippling taxes, massive regulation, and totally disastrous trade deals -- oh, the trade deals. Oh, I get a headache thinking about who made these deals, one after another. WTO, NAFTA, the wonderful deal with South Korea. Remember, they said its going to produce 200,000 jobs -- and it did, for South Korea. Didnt produce -- We lost 200,000. It turned some of our businesses Main Streets into empty ghost towns. You see whats happened.
Now, we have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to restore American prosperity, and reclaim Americas great destiny. Weve already made tremendous progress; far greater than I would have thought. I will tell you this in a non-braggadocious way...  ... there has never been a 10-month president that has accomplished what we have accomplished. That I can tell you. That I can tell you.
Today, again, the stock market has reached another record all-time high.  The unemployment rate nationwide is the lowest its been in 17 years, and 13 states this year have seen unemployment drop to the lowest levels in the history of their state. And I hate to tell you, but Missouri happens to be one of them.
Weve created nearly two million jobs -- two million jobs. Think of that. We used to lose millions. Now, weve created two million jobs since I won the election, and I want to say, since you won the election. I didnt win the election. You won the election.
And we will create countless more if we can sustain the 3 percent growth rate we have achieved for the past two quarters. But were going to do much better than that. Remember I used to say we can hit 4 and we can hit 3, and they were all saying, forget it, forget it. It was 1.2. It was doing terribly. We were flat. We were even. In all fairness the stock market was going this way, and now were hitting numbers that nobody thought possible, certainly not in this time.
And the numbers going up are going to do much better than anybody anticipates. In fact, theyre going to say that Trump is the opposite of an exaggerator -- the exact opposite.
Theyre going to start saying Governor that he ought to be a little bit more optimistic because his predictions were low, can you believe it? You know, a year and a half ago they were saying, oh he cant do that. Now theyre saying, hmm, that was quick.
But by the way the commerce department announced this morning that our GDP -- thats the big one -- in the third quarter grew even faster than they reported previously. They made a mistake. They were too low. They had it at 3 percent. By the way, 3 percent -- did you ever think you would hear that in less than a year? And now it comes in at 3.3 percent which is the largest increase in many years.
And if we didnt have the hurricanes we would have been at 4 percent. The hurricanes were devastating. And I said theyre worth a point. They said they were worth like .006, but I said they were worth a point. We would have been at 4 percent, maybe even over 4 percent, but we had hurricanes. We took care of them, in Texas, in Florida. They did a great, great job, amazing job, tremendous leadership, and were very proud.
Puerto Rico has been a very tough situation because of the fact that it was in very, very bad shape before the storms ever hit. But theyre doing well there, and its healing, and its getting better, and were getting them power, and all of the things that they have to have.
But I want to tell you that a lot of brave people in every state. We have great, great people, and its our number-one resource, believe me. Really great.
But in order to achieve this bright and glowing future, the Senate must pass those tax cuts. Bring Main Street roaring back, and thats whats going to happen. This is all done without the tax cuts. And Im not sure that people even believe the tax cuts. I want to see what happens. And the big day will be either tomorrow or the next day. I would say do it now. Were ready.
I said to the Republicans, and I want to tell you, these are good people. They really want to, and I know they get hit hard -- the Senators, the Congressmen, but they are all working hard. Its not so easy. Its complicated stuff. Its not so easy, but we had an incredible session yesterday.
And I think were there. Thats why I said, lets do -- can we do the vote today? What do I know? Im a business guy? Can we do the vote now? Well they said, how about Friday? I said, I dont want to wait till Friday.
Right, Billy? I said, Billy, can we do the vote? Get me the vote. Well Billy has already passed it so. And then what happens if it passes it goes into this beautiful committee, this beautiful I call it a pot, and we mix it up, and we stir it up and bring all the best things out, and youre going to have something, I predict, that will be really, really special. So right now -- it really is.  It really is.
So right now, Americas tax code is a total, dysfunctional mess. The current system has cost our nation millions of American jobs, trillions and trillions of dollars, and billions of hours wasted on paperwork and compliance. It is riddled with loopholes that let some special interests, including myself -- in all fairness. This is going to cost me a fortune, this thing, believe me.
Believe -- This is not good for me. Me, its not so -- I have some very wealthy friends. Not so happy with me, but thats OK. You know, I keep hearing Schumer: "This is for the wealthy."" Well
I have to explain why. Now, it is great for companies, because companies are going to bring back jobs, and were lowering the rates very substantially. But right now, were bringing the rates down from 35 percent, which is totally noncompetitive. The highest industrialized nation in the world by far, and were bringing it all the way down to 20 percent. But thats good.
Thats good for everybody in the room, whether you have a company, or whether you want a job, because were going to bring back jobs. And what weve had is a massive giveaway to foreign countries, which encouraged businesses to relocate offshores.
And youve seen whats happened before this. This is really -- most part, because as bad as our tax code is, we have Toyota. We have big car companies coming back in, building plants in Michigan, and other places. We have a lot of businesses coming back in, and they see whats happening. They see whats going on. Thats why theyre doing...
Our current code is a giant -- and really, it is. Its a self- inflicted economic wound. Its been that way for so many years, and nobody wanted to do anything about it.
But all that will change, and it will change immediately if Congress sends a tax cut and reform bill, the biggest tax cut in the history of our country -- bigger than Reagan. If they send it to my desk, I promise all of the people in this room, my friends, so many friends in this room. Its a great state. I promise you, I will sign it.
I promise. I will not veto that bill. There will be no veto. Under the plan moving forward in the Senate, a typical family of four earning $75,000, as an example, will see their taxes go down by as much as $2,000. Thats a lot.
Now, were doing that not just to help people; were doing that because it helps our country. Youre going to take that $2,000, and maybe youll save some, and youre going to spend some. And were going to make product back in our country again.
You know, its going to be made here. Its going to be made elsewhere, but its going to be made here. Were opening up plants, were opening up factories, and were going to be great to small business. Waitll you see the final product. Waitll you see what finally comes out in what I call the mixer.
The beating heart of our plan is a tax cut for working families. Thats what it is. Were going to make sure...  ... that you keep more of your hard-earned money. Were going to make sure, also, that you have a job that you want. Youre going to have choice.
You know, in education, we now have choice -- good word. Here, youre going to have a choice. Youre not just going to have one job -- youre going to have a choice of many jobs. People are moving back into our country. Under our plan, the first $12,000 of income earned by a single individual will be totally income tax free -- zero.  And a married couple wont pay one dime of income tax on their first $24,000 of income -- zero.
Our plan will significantly increase the child tax credit and make it available to more middle class families because the single most important investment our nation can make is in our children. Do we agree? Do you agree? You better agree.
Families will also benefit from a new credit for other dependents like a child in college or an elderly loved one. We have our mothers, our fathers. You have your grandparents. You have people that are elderly that have done a fantastic job. Theyve grown old. You want to help them. Now we are going to help you help them.
Were also going to eliminate tax breaks and complex loopholes taken advantage by the wealthy. Who are they? I dont know.  I think my accountants are going crazy right now. Its alright. Hey look, Im president. I dont care. I dont care anymore.  Some of my wealthy friends care. Me, I dont care. This is a higher calling. Do we agree?  As Hillary said, "What difference does it make?"" "
It made a big difference. It made a big difference, made a big, big difference. We want a tax code that is simple and fair, and thats for all Americans. The plan that senators will be voting on this week, hopefully as soon as possible, closes the loopholes that corporations use to shift their profits to tax havens, and it eliminates dedications for CEO salaries over $1 million.
You see what some of these people are making? A little ridiculous. Im driving up their stock. Theyre making a fortune, then they go to their board and they tell everybody what a great job theyre doing, but what am I going to do?  And many of them, honestly, I dont like.  Some of these bankers, I dont like them, and theyre making a fortune, and its one of those things.
Steve knows a couple of them that Im talking about, doesnt he? They say what a great job they do. Right now anybody could do their job because were making it easy for them, because were giving them a great and strong economy, and because weve cut regulations more than any president in the history of this country by far, and thats for full terms. Thats not for ten months.
And it allows builders to build, and it allows farmers to farm. You know what Ive done for farmers?  Where if you had a little puddle in the middle of your field, you go to jail if you touch it, right? You know what Im talking about. Not anymore. Not anymore. Not anymore.
And it allows bankers to lend. It allows bankers to lend again. So many people came up to me and they said, we had a 20-year relationship with a bank. We never had a default. We never had a bad loan. Now they we go back to the bank and they say we cant do business with you anymore. Because they dont qualify. Even though they are better than the people that do qualify. Its incredible.
But were back to the strong days of our banks and not the days of trouble pre that. Were back to the -- where bankers can make loans, and community bankers can make great loans to good people. You saw what happened recently where the certain agency or bureau that was causing so much trouble to lenders, where they could not lend. They just couldnt lend. It was devastating. They were going out of business.
Well, were taking care of that. Weve already taken care of a big part of it, and yesterday, you saw we won the lawsuit. So thats going to be taken care of automatically.  Got to get back to business.
Our focus is on helping the folks who work in the mailrooms and the machine shops of America; the plumbers, the carpenters, the cops, the teachers, the truck drivers, the pipefitters -- the people that like me best.  Actually, the rich people actually dont like me, which is sort of interesting, and thats fine. I -- you know what? I like that trade.
But really, the people that like me best are those people, the workers. Theyre the people I understand the best. Those are the people I grew up with. Those are the people I worked on construction sites with.
All of the people who give their best each and every day to take care of their family, and the country that they love. These are incredible people. They came out to vote for me. They came out to vote for us. People that worked hard -- two jobs, three jobs -- that hadnt voted in many years, because theyd never had anybody they wanted to vote for.
And they came out -- Ill never forget -- in Tennessee, a great Congressman told me they had early voting; said, "Ill tell you what. We just went through four days of early voting."" At that time
They havent voted in years, and now theyve got Trump shirts, and theyve got Trump hats, and theyve got Trump-Pence, and theyve got everything Trump, and Trump-Pence." And he said
Because we had a big one here. And I promised Josh that when he gets it going -- and he has got it in very good shape, from what I hear. Hes a popular -- everybody said, "Josh. Its got to be Josh."" Everyones telling me. I said
Its not enough for the middle class to keep getting by. We want them to start getting way ahead. Were going to have them start getting way ahead. Under our plan, middle-class families will not only see their tax bill go down; they will see their incomes go up by an average of around $4,000.
And thats because were going to cut taxes on American businesses, so they will compete for workers. Theyll raise salaries. The business is going to be happy, and the workers are going to be happy, and the country is going to be a happy place. Although, were going to have very strong borders. Please remember that, OK? Please remember.
Were going to have the wall. Dont worry about it. Were going to have the wall. We dont forget that wall. A lot of people say, "Now that he got elected
They dont want to take care of your military. And all their good at, frankly, this is obstructing. They want to obstruct. But you know what? They may obstruct, but we have gotten through all of the obstruction so far. We will keep it going, believe me.
Today, America has one of the least competitive tax rates on planet Earth, 60 percent, think of that, 60 percent higher than the average in the developed world. So our taxes are 60 percent higher. On my recent trip to Asia, every single one of the countries I visited, even those with communist governments, have slashed its corporate tax rates and slashed them dramatically.
And its very tough competition anyway. But when their taxes are a lot lower, it really makes it very tough. And that trip was a tremendous success. You know, we brought back $250 billion in contracts, thats going to be over $1 trillion very soon, thats a good -- thats a good week and a halfs work.
Boeing came back with contracts, so many of our companies can back and Im very proud of them and were doing great. But at the same time, were going to fix trade because trades unfair. Were getting killed on trade.
So were going to fix our trade, unless anybody would like to continue with this horrible situation that we have. Our plan gets America from the back of the pack and it will bring us right to number one where we were for years, but where we havent been for decades. Were going to be right back at number one.
And were going to work on trade, but were also to work on military. When we defend nations that are very wealthy and we do it for almost nothing. I say, why are we defending them, we love them, I wont mention names. But there are a lot of them. We love them, theyre wealthy. One of them has a cash flow that they say is unsustainable its so large.
Think of that. How would you like to have an unsustainable cash flow? They dont know what to do with their money and we defend them. Its going to change folks, were going to defend them, but theyre going to treat us fairly. And theyre going to pay for their defense, does that make sense?
And a lot of this was from many, many years ago when we defended a defeated country, and then they became strong and they became rich and we just kept the same defense. What happened, why didnt anybody go in and negotiate?
And when I was in Asia, I spoke to a couple of the countries about it. And they looked like this, you know what this is? That means they know theyre getting away with murder and they got to start helping us out, OK?
So if you dont mind, Ill start bringing that up with some of our good friends. Were going to cut our tax rate to the very competitive number of 20 percent, as I said, and were going to create jobs and factories will be pouring into this country.
They already are starting. A lot of people think its going to happen. I dont want to say anything, Im not going to talk about it. I thought we had healthcare and we will have healthcare, its going to happen. Soon as we get the taxes, we work on the healthcare, were going to happen because we thought we had that votes and then we -- something happened, a little strange. Thats OK.
When you lose by one vote, then its called, you go back. You know, some people said, "Oh
And by the way, what happened, what happened, is Obama took a long time, years to get Obamacare, right? Again, 10 months. Weve had two runs at it. Were coming closer, closer. I think now we have a plan thats going to be great. But were not talking about it until after taxes, and then we take care of health care.
Then we will have done tax cuts, the biggest in history, health care, phenomenal health care. I know you dont want this -- welfare reform. Does anyone want welfare reform?
And infrastructure. But welfare reform, I see it, and Ive talked to people. I know people that work three jobs and they live next to somebody who doesnt work at all. And the person who is not working at all and has no intention of working at all is making more money and doing better than the person thats working his and her ass off. And its not going to happen. Not going to happen.
So were going to go into welfare reform, unless Billy doesnt want it. Billy, am I okay in saying that I speak for you. He said yes. You got a lot of friends out there, Bill. Well, were also cut taxes for the millions for small businesses that file as individuals, and thats going to come out of the hopper. Its getting there and its going to be better and better. Were reducing the tax burden on businesses of all sizes and of every single kind.
As a candidate, I pledged to fight for American jobs. It think its possibly the number one reason I got elected, and I think weve done a lot better at this point than anybody ever even thought possible.
Think of that, two million jobs since the election, two million more jobs in this country since the election. Nobody expected that. Excuse me, I didnt even expect that.
But, you know, you cut those regulations and you give people spirit and incentive, and when you have the highest ratings in terms of confidence that the country has had in many, many years, maybe ever, things happen. The tax cut will mean more companies moving to America, staying in America and hiring American workers right here. So thats so important, right?
Small business groups across our nation -- retailers, restaurants, manufactures, grocers, contractors -- support this plan. We have tremendous support for this plan, tremendous. Because these massive tax cuts will be rocket fuel...  ... little rocket man, rocket fuel for the American economy.  He is a sick puppy.
Cassandra Poirier, where is she? Where is Cassandra. Is she around here? Hello, Cassandra. I met you back there. She and her mother, Terri. Hi, Terri. They own a jewelry store on Main Street right here in St. Charles. They make really beautiful handmade jewelry. I got to see some of it. I would have taken it in my previous life, but now if I do they dont like that. Youre not -- were not allowed to take jewelry, right?
But they make it right here in the heartland. Its beautiful. Our tax plan will insure that Cassandra can keep growing her business, keep creating jobs, keep giving back to the community that she loves, and just make her more and more successful. I assume you like that, right? Good.
Randy Schilling is also here. Where is Randy? Randy? Hello, Randy. Hes the founder of OPO. Thats an interesting name. Its called OPO Startups, and a member to dozens of small businesses in the St. Charles area. Hes a mentor. He really mentors a lot of the businesses, and hes respected. He also did a terrific job renovating the old post office on Main Street, something I know something about -- old post offices. Did he do a good job, by the way? I hear.
They said yes, Randy. If he did a bad job, Im going to stop right now and just say, "Good luck
Randy knows firsthand how the high tax burden is holding Americas small businesses back, and our tax-cut plan will unleash them to thrive like never before. He understands our plan, which will provide relief from the horrible, crushing, unfair estate tax, also known to many as the death tax.
We want to make it easier for loving families to pass on their lifes work to their children. Be nice. Be very nice, right?
Thats a tough one. The Democrats, the Democrats fight that one, I think, harder than any other thing that were doing. They fight the death tax. They dont want it. They dont like it. They dont want it. Its one of those things, but that is one of the hardest things. I have to be -- I see people right here. Theyre obviously very rich, and they love their children, right? In this group?
They love their children. Theyre very rich. They want to pass on what they have without having to have the kids sell the property, mortgage up half of it. And -- but the biggest problem we have on that one: These Democrats are being brutal. And you know, I call them obstructionists. But they want to stop the estate tax. They want to stop the death tax from, you know, being rescinded. But were going to try our best on that one.
Our economy will receive another enormous boost as trillions of dollars in wealth thats parked overseas will be able to come back to our country. Now, this is one thats interesting, because for years, Republicans and Democrats agreed. You have Apple, and you have these great companies having billions and billions of dollars overseas. Now, who doesnt want the money to come back?
But to show you the lack of leadership that this country had in the past, the Republicans want it, and the Democrats want it, and nothing ever happened. You could have passed that one, easy. In fact, were just throwing it into this bill. I could have had a separate bill on that one, I think. Dont you agree, fellas? I could have had a separate bill on that one, and gotten it passed in record time. But I figured Id put it here, because it is actually popular.
But it used to be $2.5 trillion. You know what that is? Trillion -- money you cant bring back in. Its too -- its prohibitive, both in complexity, and in the amount of tax you have to pay. So nobody brings back in. $2.5 trillion.
But $2.5 trillion, Ive been saying for six years. I think now its $4 to $5 trillion. All that money is coming back into the United States, and its going to be invested in our country, instead of sitting and helping others. We want our own help.  Thats sort of an easy one.
Last year, American multinational companies left more than 70 percent of their foreign profits overseas because the current tax system penalizes them for bringing that money back home. They actually get penalized.
Our plan switches to a territorial tax system that encourages companies to return their profits to America -- right here to the United States, where that money belongs, going back to work for you -- territorial.
If we want America to thrive in the 21st century, then we must stop running from the competition and instead we must start totally winning, and winning, and winning, again. Remember what I used to say?
Were going to win so much, were going to win that the people of Missouri are going to go to your governor and theyre going to say, governor, please go see the president. We cant stand winning so much. Remember I used to say that, right? I used to say it and thats whats happening. Thats whats happening.
And then the governors going to come to that beautiful, historic Oval Office, hes going to say to me, Mr. President, the people of Missouri cannot stand all this winning. They dont want to win so much.
They love the old way where they had lousy job numbers, lousy economic numbers, lousy -- they loved it. Please, Mr. President, please not -- and Ill say Governor, I dont care what they say in Missouri, were going to keep winning, and winning, and winning, and winning and were -- remember? Thats right.
I used to say that, I had fun with that. But we are winning, were winning again. Were winning a lot bigger than anyone ever thought possible for such a short period of time. For too long, our tax code has incentivized companies to leave our country in search of lower tax rates. It happens, many, many companies, theyre going to Ireland, theyre going all over.
Theyre going all over Asia, but theyre stopping because they now want to take advantage of what is happening and what were about to pass, hopefully. My administration rejects the off-shoring model. In other words, lets build a factory in the other country, isnt that wonderful?
That really helps us a lot. Fire everybody and lets build the product, and lets send it in without tax back into the United States. That model doesnt work for me. It never worked and it shouldnt have worked for any of our other past presidents, believe me.
Our new model is the American model. Call it the Trump model, where we build it here. As much as possible, we build in here. Simply put, our tax plan is anti off-shoring and 100 percent worker, 100 percent pro-America.
Under the American model, were reducing burdens on our business as long as they do business in our country. OK? They do business here. Now, we love Mexico, its a wonderful place. But I dont like when our car companies move to Mexico, fire everybody, build the same car in Mexico, send it through our borders with no taxes, no nothing, and we buy the car, same price, we buy the car.
In the meantime, what do we get out of it, we get no tax and we get unemployment all over. Thats stopping. So now, the plants are starting to move back. And now theres a price to pay when they do that little number on us.  Thats how we all succeed and we grow together as one team, one people, as one American family.
This weeks vote can be the beginning of the next great chapter for the American worker. To summarize, our plan cuts taxes for the working and middle-income families. It nearly doubles the amount of income taxed at the rate of zero. It lowers tax rate. It expands the child tax credit. It provides relief from the estate tax, also known as the death tax.
It cuts small business taxes. It reduces the corporate rate from 35 percent all the way down to 20 percent, and it provides a one-time low tax rate to return corporate money parked overseas -- trillions and trillions of dollars.
This is the right plan. This is the right time. We have a moment in time. The Republicans have the Senate. The Republicans have the House. The Republicans have the White House. Its very unusual, very unusual.
This is our chance to free our economy from our workers, from the terrible tax burdens. We have workers that are so burdened with taxes. Were freeing our workers from those terrible burdens. Republicans in Congress campaigned on cutting taxes. We also campaigned on repeal and replace -- its going to happen. Its going to happen. Take your time. Its going to happen. Going to happen.
Many Democrats have promised tax cuts that dont mean anything because they really want major tax increases. Senator Claire McCaskill -- have you ever heard of her?
Is doing you a tremendous disservice. She wants your taxes to go up. Shes weak on crime. Shes weak on borders. Shes weak on illegal immigration. And shes weak on the military. Other than that, I think shes doing a fantastic job.
But now comes the moment of truth. In the coming days, the American people will learn which politicians are part of the swamp and which politicians want to drain the swamp.
If you make your voices heard and call up your congressmen -- and theyve been terrific. And call up your Senators, and they have been totally terrific. Most of them have been incredible. They really are. Theyre really friends of mine. Theyve been incredible. But it doesnt take much. Thats why we need more. We need to have a larger number.
Most of them have been incredible, but call your Senators. Call your Congressmen because we have no choice. We have to act. We have to act as a country. This isnt good for the Republican Party. This is good for the country. And thats, ultimately, what its all about.
So this week, hopefully, the Senate can join the House and take that strong stand for middle-class families and for business and for jobs and for competition and for bringing money back. Together, we will give the American people a big, beautiful Christmas present.
And remember, I was the one when I was here the last time, I said, were going to have Christmas again; I was the one that said you go to the department stores and you see Happy New Year and you see red and you see snow and you see all these things. You dont see Merry Christmas anymore.
