Donald Trump|Interview: Lesley Stahl Interviews Donald Trump on 60 Minutes|October 14, 2018
I think somethings happening. Somethings changing and itll change back again. I dont think its a hoax, I think theres probably a difference. But I dont know that its manmade.
I will say this. I dont wanna give trillions and trillions of dollars. I dont wanna lose millions and millions of jobs. I dont wanna be put at a disadvantage.
And you dont know whether or not that would have happened with or without man. You dont know.
No, we have --
We have scientists that disagree with that.
Well -- Im not denying.
Im not denying climate change. But it could very well go back. You know, were talkin about over a millions --
-- of years. They say that we had hurricanes that were far worse than what we just had with Michael.
People say. People say that in the --
Youd have to show me the scientists because they have a very big political agenda, Lesley.
Look, scientists also have a political agenda.
Yes. Yes.
Nobody knows yet, but well probably be able to find out. Its being investigated. Its being looked at very, very strongly. And we would be very upset and angry if that were the case. As of this moment, they deny it. And den -- deny it vehemently. Could it be them? Yes.
They deny it. They deny it every way you can imagine. In the not-too-distant future, I think well know an answer.
Well, it depends on what the sanction is. Ill give ya an example. They are ordering military equipment. Everybody in the world wanted that order. Russia wanted it, China wanted it, we wanted it. We got it.
I tell you what I dont wanna do. Boeing, Lockheed, Raytheon, all these com -- I dont wanna hurt jobs. I dont wanna lose an order like that. There are other ways of -- punishing, to use a word thats a pretty harsh word, but its true.
Well, theres a lot at stake. Theres a lot at stake. And maybe especially so because this man was a reporter. Theres something -- youll be surprised to hear me say that. Theres something really terrible and disgusting about that, if that were the case. So were gonna have to see. Were going to get to the bottom of it and there will be severe punishment.
Right.
And South Korea.
There has been no administration in the history of our country, and I say this openly and proudly, that in its first two years --
Well, its not even that, its a fact Tax cuts, regulation cuts, the biggest regulations cuts in history.
Well, I consider it a, so far, great achievement. Look, we --
Its always so far, til everythings done. I -- I -- you know, deals are deals, okay? Whether its a real estate deal or a retail deal, it doesnt matter. But I will say this. The day before I came in, we were going to war with North Korea. I sat with President Obama --
-- and -- we were gonna -- I think it was going to end up in war. And my impression is -- and even in my first few months, I mean, that rhetoric was as tough as it could possibly get. Doesnt get any tougher than that. Nobodys ever heard rhetoric that tough. We were going to war with North Korea. Now, you dont hear that. You dont hear any talk of it. And he doesnt wanna go to war, and we dont wanna go to war, and he understands denuclearization and hes agreed to it. And you see that, hes agreed to it. No missiles.
I do trust him, yeah, I trust him. That doesnt mean I cant be proven wrong --
about it?
Well, first of all, if I didnt trust him, I wouldnt say that to you. Wouldnt I be foolish to tell you right here, on 60 Minutes --
Sure. I know. Its -- its very true. But the fact is, I do trust him. But well see what happens.
They want to --
And I will tell you that theyre closing up sites.
Setting it up.
Well, nobody really knows. I mean, people are saying that. Ive actually said that.
We dont really know, Lesley. We really dont know. But I assume --
Lets say the answer is yes, okay? In the meantime, they havent tested a missile. They havent tested a rocket. They definitely havent done a nuclear test because you know about them real fast. It sort of moves the earth. And we have a relationship now.
We havent done that.
No, No. I --
No Im not doing it. This isnt the Obama administration. I havent eased the sanctions. I havent done anything. I havent done anything. Were meeting. I believe he likes me. I like him. We have a good relationship. Its very important.
And then we fell in love, okay. No really. He wrote me beautiful letters. And theyre great letters. We fell in love.
Sure. I know all these things. I mean -- Im not a baby. I know these things.
Look, look. I -- I -- I like -- I get along with him, okay?
Okay. Thats just a figure of speech.
It well, let it be an embrace. Let it be whatever it is to get the job done.
Look. Let it be whatever it is. I get along with him really well. I have a good energy with him. I have a good chemistry with him. Look at the horrible threats that were made. No more threats. No more threats.
I get along with him. Its very important. China, lets go.
$250 billion.
Might. Might.
They wanna negotiate, Lesley. They wanna negotiate.
Look.
I have a great chemistry also with President Xi of China. I dont know that thats necessarily going to continue. I told President Xi we cannot continue to have China take $500 billion a year out of the United States in the form of trade and others things.
And I said we cant do that, and were not gonna do that anymore.
Okay. Okay. So, so far, that hasnt turned out to be the case.
-- if you think about it, so far, I put 25% tariffs on steel dumping, and aluminum dumping 10%.
-- again.
They can retaliate, but they cant -- they dont have enough ammunition to retaliate. We do $100 billion with them. They do $531 billion with us.
No no, although theyre down 32 percent in four months, which is 1929.
I dont want that. No, I dont want that. I want them to negotiate a fair deal with us. I want them to open their markets like our -- our markets are open.
And it will be a fair deal --
You call it war, I dont call --
-- it --
I called it a skirmish.
I called it, actually I called it a battle. But, actually, Im gonna lower that. I consider it a skirmish. And were gonna win.
I mean, whats an ally? We have wonderful relationships with a lot of people. But nobody treats us much worse than the European Union. The European Union was formed in order to take advantage of us on trade, and thats what theyve done.
And yet, they -- its not hostile.
You know whats hostile? The way they treat us. Were not hostile.
Weve been -- weve been --
-- the stupid country for so many years.
Now, I like NATO, NATOs fine. But you know what? We shouldnt be paying almost the entire cost of NATO to protect Europe. And then on top of that, they take advantage of us on trade. Theyre not going to do it anymore. They understand that.
You dont know that. You dont know that.
You dont know that.
No, its not true.
Frankly, I like General Mattis. I think I know more about it than he does. And I know more about it from the standpoint of fairness, that I can tell you.
I know -- and, Lesley, you dont have to try again. I know exactly what youre saying --
The answer is this. I will always be there with NATO, but they have to pay their way. Im fully in favor of NATO, but I dont wanna be taken advantage of.
Yeah.
Okay, you ready?
I have been -- you dont know what I talked about with Putin in the meeting prior to the press conference --
Excuse me.
I didnt? Im the one that gave Ukraine offensive weapons and tank killers. Obama didnt. You know what he sent? He sent pillows and blankets. Im the one -- and hes the one that gave away a part of Ukraine where Russia now has this --
I think Im very tough with him personally. I had a meeting with him. The two of us. It was a very tough meeting and it was a very good meeting.
Probably he is, yeah. Probably. I mean, I dont --
But I rely on them, its not in our country.
Of course they shouldnt do it-
Thats your  --
They -- they meddled. But I think China meddled too.
And I think other countries --
And you wanna know something?
Well, let me ask you --
Because I think China meddled also. And I think, frankly, China --
-- is a bigger problem.
Im not doing anything.
Im saying Russia, but Im also saying China.
Well, well see what happens come midterms. But --
I was disappointed that he recused himself and many people think I was right on that. I was very disappointed. Why should he have recused himself? So I was very --
-- disappointed but --
-- well see what happens.
No. No. You cant assume that.
Well, I -- I dont pledge anything. But I will tell you, I have no intention of doing that. I think its a very unfair investigation because there was no collusion of any kind.
There is no collusion. I dont wanna pledge. Why should I pledge to you? If I pledge, Ill pledge. I dont have to pledge to you. But I have-
I have no intention of doing that.
Do you really think Id call Russia to help me with an election? Give me a break. They wouldnt be able to help me at all. Call Russia. Its so ridiculous.
We are a country torn by angry, bitter partisan divisions. And there are many who say the president isnt helping. We talked with the president about that, the contentious Kavanaugh hearings, questions of chaos in his administration. And his record so far.
So when I won the presidency, I th -- I -- I -- the press treats me terribly. I thought very strongly that, you know, the one great thing will happen is the press will start treating me great. Lesley, they treat me worse. They got worse instead of better. Very dishonest.
I regret that the press treats me so badly --
And despite that, my poll numbers are very good, so.
Everybody makes mistakes.
I could have been -- earlier with terminating the NAFTA deal. The problem was, I was getting to know the leaders. I was getting to know countries. I didnt wanna do it right outta the box. So I waited a little while, but I could have done trade a little bit earlier.
Yeah. Well, that was --
the same as the Obama law. You know, Obama had the same thing.
No, but then everybody decided and the courts dont want separation. And frankly, when you dont do separa -- when you allow the parents to stay together, okay, when you allow that, then what happens is people are gonna pour into our country.
Well, were looking at a lot of things. Really what we wanna do is change the immigration laws, cause they were -- they were a laughing stock all over the world.
No, I want all the laws changed.
there have to be consequences, Lesley, for coming into our country illegally. And part of the r -- I mean, part of the reason, I have to blame myself, the economy is so strong that everybody wants to come into the United States.
Go ahead.
I will --
I will only -- I cant -- you cant say yes or no. What I can say is this: There are consequences from coming into a country, namely our country, illegally.
You dont have to.
But its the same as Obama.
It is vicious, its full of lies, deceit and deception.
Okay. So I always used to say the toughest people are Manhattan real estate guys and blah, blah. Now I say theyre babies.
Theyre babies, the political people. This is the most deceptive, vicious world. It is vicious, its full of lies, deceit and deception. You make a deal with somebody and its like making a deal with -- that table.
Well, I dont wanna give you an example. Im not lookin to -- in the meantime, nobodys been able to do what Ive been able to do. Remember that. When you look at taxes, you look at regulations, you look at -- making deals with other countries. Nobodys been able to do anything like this.
Actually, most people didnt even try because they knew they didnt have the ability to do it. But its a very deceptive world. The other thing Ive really learned is I never knew how dishonest the media was. I -- I -- and I really mean it. Im not saying that as a sound bite. I never --
Knew how dishonest --
Well, no, even the way you asked me a question, like, about separation. When I say Obama did it, you dont wanna talk about it.
When I say I did it, lets make a big deal of it.
Im just telling you that you treated me much differently on the subject.
Hey, its okay --
Lesley, its okay. In the meantime, Im president -- and youre not.
Yeah -- I think that --
-- whats going to happen -- I think the economys bringing people together. It was very polarized under President Obama, unbelievably polarized under President Obama. I can see the country uniting. I can see it. We have people, Democrats, who behaved horribly during the Judge Kavanaugh -- you -- know what Im saying.
-- during the hearings for the Supreme Court, we had senators that behaved horribly.
I won --
Well, I bashed their attitude. I bashed their statements --
Because they were --
-- so unfair to Judge Kavanaugh. Ive never --
seen anything like it.
I dont think they want to heal yet, Ill be honest.
I think --
I -- I -- I saw Hillary Clinton made a really nasty statement. I dont think they wanna be healed. I do wanna heal.
The famous Mississippi speech?
I had one beer. Well, you think it was, nope! It was one beer. Oh good. How did you get home? I dont remember. How did you get there? I dont remember. Where is the place? I dont remember. How many years ago was it? I dont know. I dont know... I dont know...
Had I not made that speech, we would not have won. I was just saying she didnt seem to know anything.
And youre trying to destroy a life of a man who has been extraordinary.
I didnt really make fun of her.
What I said the person that were talking about didnt know the year, the time, the place.
Ok, fine.
They can do what they -- I -- I will tell you this. The way now Justice Kavanaugh was treated has become a big factor in the midterms. Have you seen whats gone on with the polls?
Well, I think she was treated with great respect, Ill -- Ill --
be honest with you.
There are those that think she shouldnt have --
I think so, yeah. I did.
W -- you know what? Im not gonna get into it because we won. It doesnt matter. We won.
Whoever it is. Maybe it was "The New York Times" too.
No, no, its -- By the way, you dont know how dishonest "The New York Times" is. It couldve been "The New York Times." I doubt it. But it couldve been.
It also couldve been any -- w -- well, dont count on it. It also couldve been any one of 3,000 people.
Its -- wrong, its so false. Its fake news. Im changing things around. And Im entitled to. I have people now on standby that will be phenomenal. Theyll come into the administration, theyll be phenomenal.
Yeah, other people will go, sure.
I think I have a great Cabinet. Therere some people that Im not happy with.
No, I dont wanna say that but
Not I dont want to say that. But I have some people that Im not thrilled with. And I have other people that Im beyond thrilled with.
Well, I dont know. He hasnt told me that. I have --
-- a very good relationship with him. It could be that he is. I think hes sort of a Democrat, if you wanna know the truth. But General Mattis is a good guy. We get along very well. He may leave. I mean, at some point, everybody leaves. Everybody. People leave. Thats Washington.
I feel the same way. I dont trust everybody in the White House, Ill be honest with you.
Im usually --
Not so much a wire. Im usually guarded. And I think Im guarded anyway. But Im not saying I trust everybody in the White House. Im not a baby. Its a tough business. This is a r -- this is a vicious place. Washington DC is a vicious, vicious place. The attacks, the -- the bad mouthing, the speaking behind your back. -- but -- you know, and in my way, I feel very comfortable here.
I think so. I mean, I felt comfortable at the beginning, other than it was a little surreal to say Im the president of the United States, but I think thats true with everybody.
Now I very much feel like POTUS. I do. I feel like the president. You know, for a little while, its like -- "Mr. President, sir." Its -- even my friends, they call me, they -- they dont call me Donald -- they call me Mr. President. And I say, "Will you please loosen up?" Ive learned on the job. I have.
