Donald Trump|Press Conference: Donald Trump Speaks at a Press Gaggle on the South Lawn|September 29, 2017
Well see what happens. Well see what happens.
Well see. I mean, we have -- hes a very fine man, but were going to make a decision sometime tonight. Hes a very, very fine man. As far as Puerto Rico is concerned, thats been going, as you know, really well.
Its been total devastation. We have over 10,000 people in Puerto Rico right now. Were getting truck drivers because the people from Puerto Rico -- the drivers just arent there. Theyre looking for their homes. They have a lot of other problems. Likewise with the police force.
But I think its going really well, considering. Rick Scott was just up -- the governor of Florida -- thats been a success. Rick is going to get involved, also, with Puerto Rico. And weve made tremendous strides. Very, very tough situation.
And a big question is, what happens? We have to rebuild -- I mean, if you look at it, the electric is gone, the roads are gone, the telecommunications is gone. Its all gone. And the real question is, whats going to happen later?
Its a tough situation. The loss of life, its always tragic. But its been incredible the results that weve had with respect to loss of life. People cant believe how successful that has been, relatively speaking.
I cant hear you, John. Go ahead.
Well, Ill tell you, the governor of Puerto Rico has been unbelievably generous with his statements. I mean, hes been praising our efforts. And this is a very difficult -- this is a total devastation.
When you look at Texas and when you look at Florida, its a whole different level. Nobody has ever seen when you have a Category 5 wipe out an island like this. Because you have nothing -- you dont have the roads; you dont have anything. And you dont have the people even to operate the equipment.
Thats why we have literally hundreds of truck drivers being brought into the island to operate the trucks, because those people have lost their homes so theyre unable to do it. And the police have lost their homes so theyre unable to do it. So its a tough situation. John.
Well, I havent heard what she said. I can tell you this: We have done an incredible job considering theres absolutely nothing to work with. And a very big question is: What are we going to do with the power plant? Because the power plant has been wiped out. Its not like, lets go back and fix it. Thats what I do; Im a good construction guy. You dont go back and fix it; there is nothing. The power grid is gone.
So we have a lot of big decisions, and youre talking about -- the dollars that youre talking about are really tremendous. And Ill be talking with the Democrats and well be talking to Congress about what were going to do a little bit longer term.
In the meantime, weve saved a lot of lives, weve done a really good job, and now were bringing the people for distribution.
In Cuba?
Well, you know the problem weve had in Cuba -- and well be coming out with something -- but there was a big problem in Cuba. So well be announcing that fairly soon -- fairly soon.
Well, were looking at Puerto Rico. Thats a very, very big thing youre talking about. Were spending hundreds of millions of dollars right now. Its a territory, and these are great people. I know the people very well. These are great people, but theres a massive investment. You are rebuilding all of it.
At some point, as you know, there is hundreds of millions -- theres a tremendous amount of money already invested in Puerto Rico by others before the storms. And that money has been in serious trouble. So now on top of it -- a lot of other money -- so a lot of -- look, a decision has to be made. What are you going to do?
Puerto Rico was flattened, and a big decision comes as to what are we going to do. But Im there to help, I can tell you that.
Well, we have great Secretaries, and we have some that actually own their own planes, as you know, and that solves that.
But we put in an order that no more planes. If you look at past administrations -- for instance, if you look at the Obama administration and you take a look at the amount of time that they spent in the air, they spent a lot of time in the air. But I felt very badly because Secretary Price is a good man, but we are looking into it, and were looking into it very strongly.
Well, well take a look. Ill be announcing something in the pretty near future.
I have a great Cabinet. And we save hundreds of millions of dollars through negotiation. Ill give you an example. With the F-35 fighter plane -- me, myself -- Ive saved hundreds of millions of dollars in negotiating. And thats one of the reasons I dont like seeing anybody even have a question about, you know, flying. I just dont want to do that.
Weve saving tremendous amounts of money no matter where we go. If you look at what weve done in Florida or Texas, weve done that for relatively little compared to what other people. So I dont like to see that happen. And I think its a shame, because as a human being, Tom Price is very good man -- I can tell you. John.
Well, thats unacceptable to me.
No, thats -- no, that would be unacceptable. Steve, go ahead.
Ive had four meetings for Fed Chairman and Ill be making a decision over the next two or three weeks.
We are -- well, first of all, weve -- you know, Brock has done a fantastic job at FEMA, and Elaine Duke is acting and shes working very hard. And I think what FEMA has done has been incredible between all of these hurricanes and doing so well. But well be making that decision probably within a month.
Homeland Security, yes.
Well, Ive spoken to other owners and I really think its coming together. I noticed last night, or I was told -- I didnt see it -- but I heard everybody stood for the national anthem. And that shows respect for our country, our flag, and for the national anthem. So, you know, Im very happy. I heard that, and they should stand. You have to stand. Its our national anthem. You have to stand.
I spoke to numerous team owners. I have many friends. I did speak to Jerry, yes. Okay. Thank you.
I was disappointed because I didnt like it cosmetically or otherwise. I was disappointed. And, you know, this is an administration that saves hundreds of millions of dollars on renegotiating things, on new trade deals that youll be seeing the results very soon. Were renegotiating NAFTA. Were renegotiating so many different things and making much better deals. Youll be seeing other things come up.
So I dont like to see somebody that perhaps theres the perception that it wasnt right.
Well, I dont want to say, but well be announcing something today.
Well be announcing something today.
Im not aware of that. Yeah, I mean, I heard it was very ministerial, but Im not aware of it. Anything else? John? Go ahead, Steve. He always treats me so nicely.
Probably today something will happen. Something will be announced.
Look, I think hes a very fine person. I certainly dont like the optics. As I said, we renegotiate deals. Were renegotiating trade deals. Were renegotiating -- as an example, the F-35 fighter plane, Ive saved hundreds of millions of dollars. So I dont like the optics of what you just saw.
Cuba -- some very bad things happened in Cuba. Very bad things.
Well, youre going to see whats happening in Cuba. But some bad -- they did some bad things in Cuba.
Probably sometime today.
