Donald Trump|Weekly Address: Donald Trump|Washington, DC
My fellow Americans. The federal government is charged with the sacred duties of protecting our nation, supporting our Constitution, and defending our borders. We also have to ensure the equal application of our laws in all 50 states.
Last year, politicians in California violated the Constitution by nullifying federal law, and declaring their state to be a sanctuary from federal immigration enforcement. A border-free zone where thousands of criminal aliens can roam free. A very, very dangerous situation -- unacceptable to everyone.
Their actions not only imperil the security of the people of California, but the security of the entire nation. California Sanctuary Bill should be called the Jailbreak Bill, because thats exactly what it is. They forced the release of dangerous criminal aliens from prisons and jails -- including drug traffickers and dealers responsible for the deaths of countless Americans.
Its gotten totally out of control. We cant allow it to go on. Californias law also increases our of vulnerability to terrorism by keeping life-saving information from federal authorities. The relationship is ridiculous. It forces law enforcement not to work together.
Last week, the citizens of Orange County, California, bravely resisted the open borders politicians in Sacramento. The Orange County Board of Supervisors courageously voted to join the administrations lawsuit to stop these dangerous and unconstitutional actions. All across California, and all over America, everyday, citizens are taking a stand to protect their families, protect their borders, and protect their country.
Every citizen has the right to be protected by federal law, and when politicians in California break those laws, they violate the constitutional rights of their citizens.
My message to communities under siege from drug and gangs and violence is: you can stop this, and you can stop it cold. Partner with the federal government, so we can help to remove these threats from your communities, and restore peace to our streets.
Im also calling on Congress to immediately close the deadly border security loopholes that endanger our country. All over our country, were living with laws that dont work. Congress has to change them. Democrats in Congress are doing everything in their power to undermine immigration enforcement, and encourage illegal immigration.
Their policies are putting all of America at risk. It is so bad, its hard to believe what theyre doing and why theyre doing it. We cant let it continue. The Democrats are not doing whats right for our country.
