Donald Trump|Press Conference: Donald Trump in New York|January 11, 2017
Thank you very much. Its very familiar territory, news conferences, because we used to give them on an almost daily basis. I think we probably maybe won the nomination because of news conferences and its good to be with you.
We stopped giving them because we were getting quite a bit of inaccurate news, but I do have to say that -- and I must say that I want to thank a lot of the news organizations here today because they looked at that nonsense that was released by maybe the intelligence agencies? Who knows, but maybe the intelligence agencies which would be a tremendous blot on their record if they in fact did that. A tremendous blot, because a thing like that should have never been written, it should never have been had and it should certainly never been released.
But I want to thank a lot of the news organizations for some of whom have not treated me very well over the years -- a couple in particular -- and they came out so strongly against that fake news and the fact that it was written about by primarily one group and one television station.
So, I just want to compliment many of the people in the room. I have great respect for the news and great respect for freedom of the press and all of that. But I will tell you, there were some news organizations with all that was just said that were so professional -- so incredibly professional, that Ive just gone up a notch as to what I think of you. OK?
All right. Weve had some great news over the last couple of weeks. Ive been quite active, I guess you could say, in an economic way for the country. A lot of car companies are going to be moving in, we have other companies -- big news is going to be announced over the next couple of weeks about companies that are getting building in the Midwest.
You saw yesterday Fiat Chrysler; big, big factory going to be built in this country as opposed to another country. Ford just announced that they stopped plans for a billion dollar plant in Mexico and theyre going to be moving into Michigan and expanding, very substantially, an existing plant.
I appreciate that from Ford. I appreciate it very much from Fiat Chrysler. I hope that General Motors will be following and I think they will be. I think a lot of people will be following. I think a lot of industries are going to be coming back.
Weve got to get our drug industry back. Our drug industry has been disastrous. Theyre leaving left and right. They supply our drugs, but they dont make them here, to a large extent. And the other thing we have to do is create new bidding procedures for the drug industry because theyre getting away with murder.
Pharma, pharma has a lot of lobbies and a lot of lobbyists and a lot of power and theres very little bidding on drugs. Were the largest buyer of drugs in the world and yet we dont bid properly and were going to start bidding and were going to save billions of dollars over a period of time.
And were going to do that with a lot of other industries. Im very much involved with the generals and admirals on the airplane, the F--35, youve been reading about it. And its way, way behind schedule and many, many billions of dollars over budget. I dont like that. And the admirals have been fantastic, the generals have been fantastic. Ive really gotten to know them well. And were going to do some big things on the F--35 program, and perhaps the F--18 program. And were going to get those costs way down and were going to get the plane to be even better. And were going to have some competition and its going to be a beautiful thing.
So, weve been very, very much involved, and other things. We had Jack Ma, we had so many incredible people coming here. There are no -- theyre going to do tremendous things -- tremendous things in this country. And theyre very excited.
And I will say, if the election didnt turn out the way it turned out, they would not be here. They would not be in my office. They would not be in anybody elses office. Theyd be building and doing things in other countries. So, theres a great spirit going on right now. A spirit that many people have told me theyve never seen before, ever.
Were going to create jobs. I said that I will be the greatest jobs producer that God ever created. And I mean that, I really -- Im going to work very hard on that. We need certain amounts of other things, including a little bit of luck, but I think were going to do a real job. And Im very proud of what weve done.
And we havent even gotten there yet. I look very much forward to the inauguration. Its going to be a beautiful event. We have great talent, tremendous talent. And we have the -- all of the bands -- or most of the bands are from the different -- from the different segments of the military. And Ive heard some of these bands over the years, theyre incredible.
Were going to have a very, very elegant day. The 20th is going to be something that will be very, very special; very beautiful. And I think were going to have massive crowds because we have a movement.
Its a movement like the world has never seen before. Its a movement that a lot of people didnt expect. And even the polls -- although some of them did get it right, but many of them didnt. And that was a beautiful scene on November 8th as those states started to pour in.
And we focused very hard in those states and they really reciprocated. And those states are gonna have a lot of jobs and theyre gonna have a lot of security. Theyre going to have a lot of good news for their veterans.
And by the way, speaking of veterans, I appointed today the head secretary of the Veterans Administration, David Shulkin. And well do a news release in a little while. Tell you about David, hes fantastic -- hes fantastic. He will do a truly great job.
One of the commitments I made is that were gonna straighten out the whole situation for our veterans. Our veterans have been treated horribly. Theyre waiting in line for 15, 16, 17 days, cases where they go in and they have a minor early-stage form of cancer and they cant see a doctor. By the time they get to the doctor, theyre terminal. Not gonna happen, its not gonna happen.
So, David is going to do a fantastic job. Were going to be talking to a few people also to help David. And we have some of the great hospitals of the world going to align themselves with us on the Veterans Administration, like the Cleveland Clinic, like the Mayo Clinic, a few more than we have. And were gonna set up a -- a group.
These are hospitals that have been the top of the line, the absolute top of the line. And theyre going to get together with their great doctors -- Dr. Toby Cosgrove, as you know from the Cleveland Clinic, has been very involved.
Ike Perlmutter has been very, very involved, one of the great men of business. And were gonna straighten out the V.A. for our veterans. Ive been promising that for a long time and its something I feel very, very strongly.
So, youll get the information on David. And I think youll be very impressed with the job he does. We looked long and hard. We interviewed at least 100 people, some good, some not so good. But we had a lot of talent. And we think this election will be something that will, with time -- with time, straighten it out and straighten it out for good cause our veterans have been treated very unfairly.
OK, questions? Yes, John?
Thank you.
Sure.
OK, first of all, these readings as you know are confidential, classified. So, Im not allowed to talk about what went on in a meeting.
And -- but we had many witnesses in that meeting, many of them with us. And I will say, again, I think its a disgrace that information would be let out.
I saw the information; I read the information outside of that meeting. Its all fake news. Its phony stuff. It didnt happen. And it was gotten by opponents of ours, as you know, because you reported it and so did many of the other people. It was a group of opponents that got together -- sick people -- and they put that crap together.
So, I will tell you that not within the meeting, but outside of the meeting, somebody released it. It should have never been -- number one, shouldnt have even entered paper. But it should have never have been released. But I read what was released and I think its a disgrace. I think its an absolute disgrace.
As far as hacking, I think it was Russia. But I think we also get hacked by other countries and other people. And I -- I can say that you know when -- when we lost 22 million names and everything else that was hacked recently, they didnt make a big deal out of that. That was something that was extraordinary. That was probably China.
We had -- we had much hacking going on. And one of the things were gonna do, we have some of the greatest computer minds anywhere in the world that weve assembled. You saw just a sample of it two weeks ago up here where we had the six top people in the world -- they were never in the same room together as a group. And were gonna put those minds together and were going to form a defense.
And I have to say this also, the Democratic National Committee was totally open to be hacked. They did a very poor job. They couldve had hacking defense, which we had.
And I will give Reince Priebus credit, because when Reince saw what was happening in the world and with this country, he went out and went to various firms and ordered a very, very strong hacking defense.
And they tried to hack the Republican National Committee and they were unable to break through.
We have to do that for our country. Its very important.
Well, you know, President Putin and Russia put out a statement today that this fake news was indeed fake news. They said it totally never happened.
Now, somebody would say, "Oh, of course hes gonna say that."
I respected the fact that he said that.
And I -- Ill be honest, I think if he did have something, they wouldve released it; they wouldve been glad to release it.
I think, frankly, had they broken into the Republican National Committee, I think they wouldve released it just like they did about Hillary and all of the horrible things that her people, like Mr. Podesta, said about her. I mean what he said about her was horrible.
If somebody said about me, what Podesta said about Hillary, I was the boss, I wouldve fired him immediately or that person. Because what he said about her was horrible.
But remember this
That Hillary Clinton got the questions to the debate and didnt report it? Thats a horrible thing. Thats a horrible thing.
Can you imagine that if Donald Trump got the questions to the debate -- it wouldve been the biggest story in the history of stories. And they wouldve said immediately, "You have to get out of the race." Nobody even talked about it. Its a very terrible thing.
Yeah?
Well, if -- if Putin likes Donald Trump, I consider that an asset, not a liability, because we have a horrible relationship with Russia. Russia can help us fight ISIS, which, by the way, is, number one, tricky. I mean if you look, this administration created ISIS by leaving at the wrong time. The void was created, ISIS was formed.
If Putin likes Donald Trump, guess what, folks? Thats called an asset, not a liability.
Now, I dont know that Im gonna get along with Vladimir Putin. I hope I do. But theres a good chance I wont. And if I dont, do you honestly believe that Hillary would be tougher on Putin than me? Does anybody in this room really believe that? Give me a break.
OK?
Lemme just tell you what I do.
When I leave our country, Im a very high-profile person, would you say?
I am extremely careful. Im surrounded by bodyguards. Im surrounded by people.
And I always tell them -- anywhere, but I always tell them if Im leaving this country, "Be very careful, because in your hotel rooms and no matter where you go, youre gonna probably have cameras." Im not referring just to Russia, but I would certainly put them in that category.
And number one, "I hope youre gonna be good anyway. But in those rooms, you have cameras in the strangest places. Cameras that are so small with modern technology, you cant see them and you wont know. You better be careful, or youll be watching yourself on nightly television."
I tell this to people all the time.
I was in Russia years ago, with the Miss Universe contest, which did very well -- Moscow, the Moscow area did very, very well.
And I told many people, "Be careful, because you dont wanna see yourself on television. Cameras all over the place."
And again, not just Russia, all over.
Does anyone really believe that story?
Im also very much of a germaphobe, by the way, believe me.  LaughterCrosstalk]
So I tweeted out that I have no dealings with Russia. I have no deals that could happen in Russia, because weve stayed away. And I have no loans with Russia.
As a real estate developer, I have very, very little debt. I have assets that are -- and now people have found out how big the company is, I have very little debt -- I have very low debt. But I have no loans with Russia at all.
And I thought that was important to put out. I certified that. So I have no deals, I have no loans and I have no dealings. We could make deals in Russia very easily if we wanted to, I just dont want to because I think that would be a conflict. So I have no loans, no dealings, and no current pending deals.
Now, I have to say one other thing. Over the weekend, I was offered $2 billion to do a deal in Dubai with a very, very, very amazing man, a great, great developer from the Middle East, Hussein Damack, a friend of mine, great guy. And I was offered $2 billion to do a deal in Dubai -- a number of deals and I turned it down.
I didnt have to turn it down, because as you know, I have a no-conflict situation because Im president, which is -- I didnt know about that until about three months ago, but its a nice thing to have. But I dont want to take advantage of something. I have something that others dont have, Vice President Pence also has it. I dont think hell need it, I have a feeling hes not going to need it.
But I have a no conflict of interest provision as president. It was many, many years old, this is for presidents. Because they dont want presidents getting -- I understand they dont want presidents getting tangled up in minutia; they want a president to run the country. So I could actually run my business, I could actually run my business and run government at the same time.
I dont like the way that looks, but I would be able to do that if I wanted to. I would be the only one to be able to do that. You cant do that in any other capacity. But as president, I could run the Trump organization, great, great company, and I could run the company -- the country. Id do a very good job, but I dont want to do that.
Now, all of these papers that you see here -- yes, go ahead.
Im not releasing the tax returns because as you know, theyre under audit.
You know, the only one that cares about my tax returns are the reporters, OK? Theyre the only who ask.
No I dont think so. I won, when I became president. No, I dont think they care at all. I dont think they care at all.
I think you care -- I think you care. First of all, you learn very little to a tax return. What you should go down to federal elections and take a look at the numbers. And actually, people have learned a lot about my company and now they realize, my company is much bigger, much more powerful than they ever thought. Were in many, many countries, and Im very proud of it.
And what Im going to be doing is my two sons, who are right here, Don and Eric, are going to be running the company. They are going to be running it in a very professional manner. Theyre not going to discuss it with me. Again, I dont have to do this. Theyre not going to discuss it with me. And with that, Im going to bring up Sheri Dillon, and shes going to go -- these papers are just some of the many documents that Ive signed turning over complete and total control to my sons.
Thank you very much. Here you go.
I -- I really think that when you watch whats going on with whats happening in -- I was just watching, as an example, Rex Tillerson. I think its brilliant what hes doing and what hes saying.
I watched yesterday, as you know, our great senator, who is going to be a great attorney general. And he was brilliant. And what people dont know is that he was a great prosecutor and attorney general in Alabama. And he was brilliant yesterday.
So, I really think that they are -- I think we have one of the great Cabinets ever put together. And weve been hearing that from so many people. People are so happy.
You know, in the case of Rex, he ran incredibly Exxon Mobil. When there was a find, he would get it. When they needed something, he would be there.
A friend of mine whos very, very substantial in the oil business, Harold Hamm -- big supporter -- he said theres nobody in the business like Rex Tillerson.
And thats what we want. Thats what I want to bring to government.
I want to bring the greatest people into government, because were way behind. We dont make good deals any more. I say it all the time in speeches. We dont make good deals anymore; we make bad deals. Our trade deals are a disaster.
So we need people that are smart, we need people that are successful and they got successful because generally speaking, theyre smart. And thats what Id put, Im very proud of the Cabinet, I think theyre doing very well.
Its very interesting how its going, but its -- I think theyre doing very, very well.
Yeah.
Finally, Obamacare, I thought it was never gonna be asked.
Youre gonna be very, very proud, as not only the media and reporters, youre gonna be very proud of what we put forth having to do with health care. Obamacare is a complete and total disaster.
They can say what they want, they can guide you anyway they wanna guide you. In some cases, they guide you incorrectly. In most cases, you realize whats happened, its imploding as we sit.
Some states have over a hundred percent increase and 17 and I said this two years ago, 17 is going to be the bad year. Its going to be catastrophic. Frankly, we could sit back and it was a thought from a political standpoint, but it wouldnt be fair to the people.
We could sit back and wait and watch and criticize and we could be a Chuck Schumer and sit back and criticize it and people would come, they would come, begging to us please, we have to do something about Obamacare. We dont wanna own it, we dont wanna own it politically. They own it right now.
So the easiest thing would be to let it implode in 17 and believe me, wed get pretty much whatever we wanted, but it would take a long time. Were going to be submitting, as soon as our secretarys approved, almost simultaneously, shortly thereafter, a plan.
Itll be repeal and replace. It will be essentially, simultaneously. It will be various segments, you understand, but will most likely be on the same day or the same week, but probably, the same day, could be the same hour.
So were gonna do repeal and replace, very complicated stuff. And were gonna get a health bill passed, were gonna get health care taken care of in this country. You have deductibles that are so high, that after people go broke paying their premiums which are going through the roof, the health care cant even be used by them because their deductibles bills are so high.
Obamacare is the Democrats problem. We are gonna take the problem off the shelves for them. Were doing them a tremendous service by doing it. We could sit back and let them hang with it. We are doing the Democrats a great service.
So as soon as our secretary is approved and gets into the office, well be filing a plan. And it was actually, pretty accurately reported today, The New York Times. And the plan will be repeal and replace Obamacare.
Were going to have a health care that is far less expensive and far better. OK.
I was going right here.
Well, if I can save jobs, for instance I was doing individual companies and people said well, thats only one company, like we did a good job with Carrier. And I wanna thank United Technologies which owns Carrier, but we saved close to a thousand jobs.
And they were gone and Mike Pence and his staff really helped us, a lot. But those were -- that was a tough one because they announced a year and a half before that they were leaving so its always tough when theyre building a plan, just a little tougher than before they start or before they make an announcement.
You want to move your plant and you think, as an example, youre going to build that plant in Mexico and youre going to make your air conditioners or your cars or whatever youre making, and youre going to sell it through what will be a very, very strong border -- not a weak border like it is -- we dont even have a border. Its an open sieve.
But youre going to sell through a very strong border -- not going to happen. Youre going to pay a very large border tax. So if you want to move to another country and if you want to fire all of our great American workers that got you there in the first place, you can move from Michigan to Tennessee and to North Carolina and South Carolina. You can move from South Carolina back to Michigan.
You can do anywhere -- youve got a lot of states at play; a lot of competition. So its not like, oh, gee, Im taking the competition away. Youve got a lot of places you can move. And I dont care, as along as its within the United States, the borders of the United States.
There will be a major border tax on these companies that are leaving and getting away with murder. And if our politicians had what it takes, they would have done this years ago. And youd have millions more workers right now in the United States that are -- 96 million really wanting a job and they cant get. You know that story. The real number -- thats the real number.
So, thats the way it is. OK. Go ahead.
Thats not clear at all. OK.
Ive got it. Do you have any more?
On the fence -- its not a fence. Its a wall. You just misreported it. Were going to build a wall. I could wait about a year-and-a--half until we finish our negotiations with Mexico, which will start immediately after we get to office, but I dont want to wait. Mike Pence is leading an effort to get final approvals through various agencies and through Congress for the wall to begin.
I dont feel like waiting a year or a year-and-a--half. Were going to start building. Mexico in some form, and there are many different forms, will reimburse us and they will reimburse us for the cost of the wall. That will happen, whether its a tax or whether its a payment -- probably less likely that its a payment. But it will happen.
So, remember this, OK? I would say we are going to build a wall and people would go crazy. I would then say, who is going to pay for the wall? And people would all scream out -- 25,000, 30,000 people, because nobody has ever had crowds like Trump has had. You know that. You dont like to report that, but thats OK.
OK, now he agrees. Finally, he agrees.
But I say who is going to pay for the wall? And they will scream out, "Mexico."
Now, reports went out last week -- oh, Mexico is not going to pay for the wall because of a reimbursement. Whats the difference? I want to get the wall started. I dont want to wait a year-and-a--half until I make my deal with Mexico. And we probably will have a deal sooner than that.
And by the way, Mexico has been so nice, so nice. I respect the government of Mexico. I respect the people of Mexico. I love the people of Mexico. I have many people from Mexico working for me. Theyre phenomenal people.
The government of Mexico is terrific. I dont blame them for whats happened. I dont blame them for taking advantage of the United States. I wish our politicians were so smart. Mexico has taken advantage of the United States. I dont blame the representatives and various presidents, et cetera, of Mexico. What I say is we shouldnt have allowed that to happen. Its not going to happen anymore.
So, in order to get the wall started, Mexico will pay for the wall, but it will be reimbursed. OK?
Supreme Court judge. So, as you know, I have a list of 20. Ive gone through them. Weve met with numerous candidates. Theyre outstanding in every case. They were largely recommended and highly recommended by Federalist Society. Jim DeMint was also very much involved, and his group, which is fantastic, and hes a fantastic guy.
That will be our really first business day as opposed to doing it on Friday, because on Friday, people are going to have a very good time at the inauguration, and then Saturday, as you know, were having a big church service and lots of good things are happening. So our first day -- and youll all be invited to the signings, but well be doing some pretty good signings on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday and Friday, and then also the next week. And youre all invited.
But on the Supreme Court, Ill be making that decision, and it will be a decision which I very strongly believe in. I think its one of the reasons I got elected. I think the people of this country did not want to see what was happening with the Supreme Court, so I think it was a very, very big decision as to why I was elected.
I think it was disgraceful -- disgraceful that the intelligence agencies allowed any information that turned out to be so false and fake out. I think its a disgrace, and I say that -- and I say that, and thats something that Nazi Germany would have done and did do. I think its a disgrace that information that was false and fake and never happened got released to the public.
As far as Buzzfeed, which is a failing pile of garbage, writing it, I think theyre going to suffer the consequences. They already are. And as far as CNN going out of their way to build it up -- and by the way, we just found out I was coming down. Michael Cohen -- I was being -- Michael Cohen is a very talented lawyer. Hes a good lawyer in my firm. It was just reported that it wasnt this Michael Cohen they were talking about. So all night long its Michael Cohen.
I said, "I want to see your passport." He brings his passport to my office. I say, hey, wait a minute. He didnt leave the country. He wasnt out of the country. They had Michael Cohen of the Trump Organization was in Prague. It turned out to be a different Michael Cohen. Its a disgrace what took place. Its a disgrace and I think they ought to apologize to start with Michael Cohen.
Go ahead.
Not you.
Your organization is terrible.
Quiet.
Hes asking a question, dont be rude. Dont be rude.
Dont be rude. No, Im not going to give you a question. Im not going to give you a question.
You are fake news. Go ahead.
Go ahead.
I dont think he went too far. No.
Plans to send me a bill for what?
I hadnt heard Lindsey Graham was going to do that. Lindsey Graham. Ive been competing with him for a long time. He is going to crack that one percent barrier one day. I didnt realize Lindsey Graham still had it. Thats all right. I think Lindsey Graham is a nice guy. Ive heard that he is a nice guy and Ive been hearing it.
Go ahead. Go ahead. Youve been waiting.
Stand up.
BBC news. Thats another beauty.
Theres nothing they could come back with.
Go ahead.
Well, I dont recommend reforms. I recommend people that are -- that have some moral compass.
You know, Ive been hearing more and more about a thing called fake news and theyre talking about people that go and say all sorts of things. But I will tell you, some of the media outlets that I deal with are fake news more so than anybody. I could name them, but I wont bother, but you have a few sitting right in front of us. Theyre very, very dishonest people, but I think its just something were going to have to live with.
Yes?
Intelligence agencies are vital and very, very important. We are going to be putting in, as you know, Mr. Pompeo and others, you know the Senator Dan Coats. Were going to be putting in some outstanding people. Within 90 days, theyre going to be coming back to me with a major report on hacking.
I want them to cover this situation. I also want them, however, to cover, maybe most importantly -- because were hacked by everybody -- you know, the United States, our government out of a list of 17 in terms of industries is the worst, its number 17, in terms of protection.
If you look at the retail industry, if you look at the banking industry, various industries, out of 17 industries -- they put this in the category of an industry -- the United States is last in terms of protecting, lets say, hacking defense. Like we had a great hacking defense at the Republican National Committee.
Thats why we werent hacked. By the way, we were told that they were trying to hack us, but they werent able to hack. And I think I get some credit because I told Reince, and Reince did a phenomenal job, but I said I want strong hacking defense.
The Democratic National Committee didnt do that. Maybe thats why the country runs so badly that way. But I will tell you -- wait -- wait -- wait, let me finish. Within 90 days, we will be coming up with a major report on hacking defense, how do we stop this new phenomena -- fairly new phenomena because the United States is hacked by everybody.
That includes Russia and China and everybody -- everybody. OK.
Go ahead -- go ahead.
All right, but you know what, it could have been others also.
Well, I think its pretty sad when intelligence reports get leaked out to the press. I think its pretty sad. First of all, its illegal. You know, these are -- these are classified and certified meetings and reports.
Ill tell you what does happen. I have many meetings with intelligence. And every time I meet, people are reading about it. Somebodys leaking it out. So, theres -- maybe its my office. Maybe in my office because I have a lot of people, a lot of great people. Maybe its them. And what I did is I said I wont tell anybody. Im going to have a meeting and I wont tell anybody about my meeting with intelligence.
And what happened is I had my meeting. Nobody knew, not even Rhona, my executive assistant for years, she didnt know -- I didnt tell her. Nobody knew. The meeting was had, the meeting was over, they left. And immediately the word got out that I had a meeting.
So, I dont want that -- I dont want that. Its very unfair to the country. Its very unfair to our country; whats happened. That report should have never -- first of all, it shouldnt have been printed because its not worth the paper its written on. And I thank the New York Times for saying that.
I thank a lot of different people for saying that. But, I will tell you, that should never, ever happen. OK.
He shouldnt be doing it. He wont be doing it. Russia will have much greater respect for our country when Im leading than when other people have led it. You will see that. Russia will respect our country more. He shouldnt have done it. I dont believe that he will be doing it more now.
We have to work something out, but its not just Russia. Take a look at whats happened. You dont report it the same way; 22 million accounts were hacked in this country by China. And thats because we have no defense. Thats because were run by people that dont know what theyre doing.
But Russia and other countries -- and other countries, including China, which has taken total advantage of us economically, totally advantage of us in the South China Sea by building their massive fortress, total. Russia, China, Japan, Mexico, all countries will respect us far more, far more than they do under past administrations.
I want to thank everybody. So this is all -- just so you understand, these papers -- because Im not sure that was explained properly. But these papers are all just a piece of the many, many companies that are being put into trust to be run by my two sons that I hope at the end of eight years, Ill come back and say, oh, you did a good job. Otherwise, if they do a bad job, Ill say, "Youre fired."
