Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Kenansville, NC|September 20, 2016
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. It is great to be in North Carolina.
Its really a special place. I love it. Really, an amazing -- an amazing place. And, you know, we had a great primary victory here.
And Ill tell you what. Its been -- its been a wonderful experience. We -- weve been touring the state all day. I hear were leading in the polls in North Carolina.
And come November 8th, we are going to win this state and we are going to win back the White House.
And when we do that, we are going to bring our jobs back to North Carolina. That I can tell you.
And we are going to have a great victory for the people. Its going to be for the people. So, we have to, and we dont have any choice, replace a very failed and very corrupt establishment with a new government that serves you, your family, and your country. And thats going to happen.
Hillary Clinton represents insiders. She represents the donors, the politicians, the big banks, the multinational corporations and everybody getting rich off a very rigged system and we know that. She represents everyone responsible for the decades-long squeezing of the middle class. The middle class in this country has been treated so unfairly as jobs and wealth move to other countries like Mexico and plenty of others.
Hillary Clinton is the chief emissary for globalism. And Im not running to be president of the world. Im running to be president of the United States.
Im running to represent America and America first, and America is going to come first from now on. Its no longer going to be in second position.
Hillary Clinton is the vessel for all of the global special interests seeking to run our government and our lives. And its not going to happen anymore.
And what weve done is weve created a movement, all over the country, its like this. Look at these crowds. Look at the people outside, the thousands of people outside. Look at whats going on, all over the country, weve created a movement and the people, we are going to do and what we have done for the people, people are energized now like theyve never seen before. I think were doing records its called in energy as opposed to some of my opponents.
And all of the people pushing the disastrous trade deals -- all of these people, theyre making a fortune in Washington, pushing trade deals that take jobs away from North Carolina and all these states, those days are over. They jobs are coming back.
All of the people -- they are just pushing everything, but all of the people, they keep digging and digging and digging us into a hole. And Ill tell you, open borders, were going to end. You see whats happening with our open borders. Thats all going to end.
The people trying to rig our financial system and our economy are the people giving their money to Hillary Clinton. Our campaign is about breaking up the special interest monopoly. I understand special interests, believe me. We are going to break up the monopoly of the donor and the special interest. Were trying to disrupt the collusion between the wealthy donors, the large corporations and the media executives, all of whom want to keep things exactly as they are right now, good system.
And we know its a rigged system, all you have to do is ask Bernie Sanders and youll see. With the super delegates. They did a number on Bernie. They did a number. And they are trying to game -- you know, we have a little debate coming up very shortly, right?
Right. So we had sort of a forum the other night and that worked out very well. And Matt Lauer did a very good job. But by trying to hit Matt, theyre trying to game the system like game the ref.
And -- but I think Lester Holt will be very fair. But a lot of people are going to be watching to see if thats true. The reason why so many corporate newspapers and news anchors are opposed to our movement is the same reason why the lobbyists and the donors are...
... movement.
Hello? See now, heres the problem. So I wouldnt pay the mic guy, right?
The mic just shot. That was a weird sound, wasnt it? So I wouldnt pay the mic guy and theyll say, isnt that terrible. He didnt pay his bills. When people dont do a good job for me I dont pay them. Its one of those things.
I dont know. My father -- my father taught me that a long time ago and probably your parents taught you that too. Anyway, theyre all part of the same political system. So they go to the same restaurants. They go to the same conferences. They have the same friends and connections. They write checks to the same think tanks and produce exactly the same reports.
Its a gravy train and it just keeps flowing. On November 8, that special interest gravy train is coming to a very abrupt end.
The insiders in Washington and Wall Street look down at the hardworking people like you, like so many people in this state, like so many people in this country. But youre the backbone of the country. And I understand that. And you understand that. You are the people that make the country run. You are the heart and soul of the nation. And you dont ever, ever, ever forget it. Dont ever forget it, folks.
Hillary Clinton lifted the veil on this whole corrupt scheme when she called you deplorable and irredeemable.
These insiders, the political elites as they say, you see it, OK? You see it. They are supposed to be OK.
Believe me, I like what we have together. What we have together is special. What we have together has never been together before like it is right now in this nations history.
And when we have rallies like this, I have to say -- we have rallies like this and we have seven, eight, nine, 10,000 routinely, those are like the smaller crowds. We were in Pensacola the other day, we were -- no matter where we go, and Hillary goes out for rallies and yesterday, I think she had 200 people.
She had 200 people, maybe 300. Ill say 300 because theyll say I was wrong. What we have, folks, is something special. Thats why on November 8th, you have to get out and you have to vote, but thats also why on October 20th, I believe, you can go early and you can do your ballots and you have to do it.
And you have to get all your friends out because if we win North Carolina -- were up in Florida, were up in Ohio, we win North Carolina, were winning. Were going to win.
Were going to win, so October 20th.
Clinton doesnt see you as people to serve, but subjects to rule over. Hello? Is that friend or foe? Is that friend? Her friends see you as people who arent entitled to run this country or this government and thats what they see.
They dont want you or your family to have a voice. Thats why Im running. I am your voice. I promise I will be the greatest voice youve ever had.
Well bring our government back to the people. Well break up the donor, media, industrial complex because there is nothing so dishonest as our media and not everybody -- not everybody.
Honestly, not everybody. But a large portion of it, and its very, very unfair. And its bled this country dry. And thats given us all of the problems, the combinations of different groups, all of the problems that we have today.
Hillary Clinton is the last line of defense for a failed political establishment, believe me. And she does not have you at heart. All of their money, all of their hopes for another generation of corruption -- all of the corruption -- the tremendous corruption, thats what we have vested in her.
Now, I will say, we have just gotten some reports. And were getting these phenomenal poll numbers, and theyre saying that our expenditures on advertising, our expenditures on people, our expenditures on everything are a tiny fraction and yet, were minimum tied and we might probably, actually be winning, spending a tiny fraction -- spending a tiny fraction.
Now, in the old days and for the business people here of which we have many, if you spent less, had fewer people, did less advertising -- in a one state, I think they said we did one fiftieth -- one fiftieth spend less advertising and were winning.
They used to give you credit for that. In our country, right now, with these politics, they say, well, you should have more people. You should spend more money. Im saying to myself, it doesnt work that way. If you can spend less and be winning thats a positive thing, right?
Thats the person you want as your president, I think. The Clinton campaign exists for one reason and thats to continue rigging.
And look, you know whats going on. You know whats going on. Its rigging the system, just like she rigged the system for her donors when she was secretary of state.
What happened, what happened when she was secretary of state was a total disgrace. So, her conduct as secretary of state, giving all of these special favors, was something like we have never seen in this country before. And then you can take a look at e-mails. You can take a look at all of the things that happened, all of the money that was made, all of the disgraceful conduct. Its really exhibit A against our truly, and I cant say corrupt system because its not a totally corrupt system. Its a system thats out of control.
Its a system -- its just off-kilter. Were going to put it back into kilter, folks. Were going to make America great again.
And were going to make it great. Were going to make America great again.
Now, I have to tell you -- I have to tell you a couple of things because this is a group that likes jobs, right? We can -- we can talk about Hillary Clinton for hours. We can talk about the rigged system. We can talk about the 33,000 e-mails that were deleted. We can talk about all of the problems that our countrys had. You look at her with Libya. You look at her with all of the different things -- look at ISIS. ISIS was formed in the vacuum that she and Barack Obama created.
They created this vacuum, and ISIS was formed. Now, she is telling us how to get rid of ISIS, right? I dont think so. Now, I dont know if youve heard, but over the last number of years, shes wanted 550 percent more Syrian refugees to come into the United States. Two days ago -- two days ago, President Obama said and very strongly said that he wants 120,000 -- some vast number -- 120,000 to come in to the United States. Look at the problems were having now. Look at the problems that the world is having now. Look at whats going on. We cant allow it to happen. We cant allow it to happen.
And its not going to happen. Now, what is going to happen...
What is going to -- and this is so important, and I just think its one of those things that were going to see because its politics.
Hillary is all of a sudden going to get tough. The debate comes and shell say, I want strong borders. I believe she meant the term extreme vetting. Where did you hear extreme vetting before? Only from me. Because I made up the term. I mean, I came up, I said, we need extreme vetting to come into our country.
All of a sudden...
All of sudden, shes got extreme vetting and shes got all of these terms. Folks, its not going to happen. And the reason its not going to happen is because her special interest donors, they like it when our businesses move out because they own businesses. They move to Mexico.
Lots of this -- really, lots of advantages for them to do that. No advantage for our country, no advantage for our jobs. So, Ill give you a couple of examples. And I think its horrible. Ford Motor Company just announced that they are moving their small car division, did anybody hear this, to Mexico.
Unbelievable numbers of jobs -- tremendous numbers of jobs, and were not going to let it happen. Were not going to let this -- we lost -- in North Carolina, you lost 44 percent of your manufacturing. NAFTA has been a disaster for North Carolina.
NAFTA has been a disaster for this country. You go to Pennsylvania, you go to Ohio, you go to all of these states, you go to New York State, you go to New England, look at whats happened to our country. Were not going to let it happen any longer. Were not going to let them take our businesses any longer, these corrupt politicians, were not going to let them take our businesses any longer. Its not going to happen, OK? Its not going to happen.
We wont let it happen. Now, we have a tremendous problem with immigration, but we have a tremendous problem with job loss. And we have a real problem with good jobs because were keeping jobs. They are bad jobs. They are considered, were losing our good jobs.
So, a couple of examples, you remember what happened in Indiana recently with Carrier Air Conditioning, right? They fired all their employees. They said were moving to Mexico. Congratulations. It was captured, this firing, on somebodys beautiful cell phone.
A great thing, because if I didnt see it on the cell phone, it wouldnt have meant that much. And if other people didnt, and it happened to be just before my primary in Indiana, which I won in a landslide largely because of Carrier.
So, what happened -- what happened is they let their employees go. Theyre going to move to Mexico. Tremendous -- I tell you what -- tremendous advantages were given to Carrier to stay, but they decided to fire 1,400 people and go to Mexico.
They are building a brand new plant. And I wish them well, but here is the story folks. This could have been stopped years ago. The politicians didnt either understand it or if they did understand it they certainly didnt want to do it.
I actually think its a combination of both, but whats going to happen is the following. If we had somebody -- I would love to do it myself, but Im not sure if presidents are supposed to call up the head of an air conditioning company and explain to them why -- why theyre not going to do that.
But Ill tell you what. We are going to tell them in the nicest of language, Mr. President of Carrier, Im sorry. If you think youre going to leave Indiana -- Indianapolis to be exact -- fire all these people, get rid of everybody, we have no income, no taxes, no nothing. Youre going to move to Mexico into a brand new plant. Youre going to make products. Youre going to make your air conditions and sell them through our very strong border because, by the way, we will build the wall. We will have ...
Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.
No, no, were building the wall. Were going to have a very, very strong border. Who is going to pay for the wall?
Mexico.
Do you even have a doubt? No, do you have even -- do you have even a doubt?
No.
So, what were going to do is were going to tell Carrier and everybody -- I hate to use Carrier only, but theyre a perfect example. They make air conditioners, good air conditioners, I used to buy them, I wont buy them anymore but I may never buy an air conditioner again if I win, OK? If I lose, I may be buying them a lot but I dont know, this is much more exciting than the real estate business to be honest with you.
But were going to tell them that, look, if you move, we are going to charge you 35 percent every time you make an air conditioner and think youre going to sell it back into our country, OK,
Thirty-five percent. And Ill tell you what will happen every single time, like 98 percent -- 98 percent theyre going to say, well, lets go get a lobbyist.
Now, Im putting up my own money and Im into this thing for a lot of money, folks, OK? Im putting up my own money. I dont know if its ever happened. I guess Ross Perot put up his own money. But Im putting up my money, Im raising money from the small donors and some larger donors going to through the Republican Party, the RNC, Reince Priebus -- is by the way doing a great job -- but were raising for the Republican Party, but I am putting up millions and millions and millions of dollars, so, if you dont go out to vote Im going to feel very, very foolish Ill tell you.
Im going to say one of the -- one of the pundits said it doesnt matter whether he wins or loses; what he has done has been amazing. Its never been done before. And you know what I say to that, if I lose, I wasted a lot of time, energy and money, thats the way I look at it. I dont -- I dont view it the way they look at it.
And I will say it has been an amazing experience. But heres whats going to happen. Were going to say to them -- and I have the greatest business people in the world backing me, Carl Icahn, so many different business people and well -- we have to use our great business people.
We have to use our great negotiators on trade and theyll say, look, heres the story, if you move, Mr. Carrier, if you move, its fine. Enjoy your new plant. The weather is hot but thats OK. Enjoy the new plant. But if you move, theres going to be this tax. Theyre not going to move, folks. Theyre not going to move. Theyre going to say, well, were going to stay.
Now, theyll stay in Indiana, they may come to North Carolina, all of that stuff is fine, right? But theyre not leaving our country so easily. We cant continue to be the suckers that allow thousands of companies, millions of jobs to be lost by moving their manufacturing plants and factories to other countries, we cant do it.
We cant do it. We cannot do it.
So, one of two things is going to happen, either theyre not moving, theyre staying in Indiana or the United States and this goes for many, many companies, there are many companies right now in North Carolina that are talking about moving to Mexico and other places. I hate to tell you, you have a job, you think you have a good job, you better get back immediately, stop listening to this.
The fact is you have companies right now where you work that are negotiating to move out of North Carolina, OK? They are negotiating to move out of different states and our politicians do nothing about it. And the reason is two reasons -- number one, theyre not very smart; number two, a lot of times theyre taken care of by donors and special interests that want them to move out. They have reason to have them move out especially when you can make your product and sell it into the United States with no tax, no nothing.
So, either theyre going to stay which most of them will because the numbers dont work anymore when they have to pay that tax or theyre going to leave and were going to make a fortune every they sell something into this country, so its OK, I dont care.
But were not going to have it any longer where our companies fire everybody, move to Mexico and other places and then after all of that work, we end up with unemployment and nothing, OK? And they end up with great jobs, great factories.
A friend of mine and you might have heard me say this, but it happened a month and a half ago, hes one of the biggest in the world at building plants, he builds plants, big car plants, big -- all kinds of plants. Thats all he builds. If you tell him build an apartment house, he wouldnt maybe know how to do it but he builds great plants.
And I said to him, hows business? Unbelievable. Really, thats good, how is it -- I mean, in the United States? No, not good here. I said, what do you mean, not good here? He said, you got to see Mexico.
Were building plants -- he said to me, Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world. Its going to be the car capital of the world. Michigan is getting killed. Ohio is getting killed. A lot of states are getting killed including, by the way, North Carolina, theyre getting killed. Your jobs are being moved. Your companies are moved down to Mexico and to other places but Mexico in particular.
China is a disaster. We have a trade deficit with China, $500 billion a year trade deficit. By the way, our trade deficit with Mexico is also massive -- its massive. But we have a $500 billion trade deficit with China. And let me tell you something, thats not going to happen with me. Its a -- its a two-way street. We got to remember its not a one-way street.
You know, when Boeing goes and wants to sell planes to China, they make them build plants and after those plants, and I told this to the people in South Carolina who I love, but they have a big Boeing complex but theyre now building a big Boeing complex in China. When that complex is built and they start devaluing their currency and they start playing around because theyre currency manipulators like nobody thats ever been there, even better than Japan in their prime, and they start selling airplanes at prices that this country cant compete with, Ill tell you what, you got to be careful, but thats whats happening right now.
When they -- when Boeing made their deal with China, China took their intellectual property, they took so much. And if they didnt take it, it wouldnt matter because they steal intellectual property. So, Im just saying this, I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created, that I can tell you, that I can tell you.
And Hillary Clinton doesnt have a clue, not even a clue.
Now, when it comes to the bored -- and some of you have heard it and some of you havent -- who has heard The Snake"? How many people
Yes.
Yes? All right. Im going to do it.
Ill tell you what, to me, I love it because its so descriptive, not complex at all, but its so totally descriptive. We need strong borders. We cant have people coming into this country who dont love our people and love our country, thats all. And we want people -- we want people to come into our country, we really do. We want them to come into our country but they have to come in through a system and they have to come in legally. Right now, they are pouring across the borders.
You know, I was endorsed by the Border Patrol Agents, 16,500 agents -- theyve never endorsed a presidential candidate before, ever. Theyve never endorsed a presidential candidate, they endorsed me -- I consider it a great honor. These are great people that want to have a strong border. They are told to stand back, let people come in, stand back.
We dont know what were doing. And then to have the Syrians come in who just today it was said, they really cant be vetted and I dont know if anyone saw, I think it was 868 people -- did you see that -- they were scheduled for deportation and instead of being deported, I dont know if they pressed the wrong button or was there something dishonest going on, one or the other -- so, instead of being deported, they became citizens of the United States, almost 1,000 people.
Thats yesterday. They sort of hit the jackpot, didnt they? Theyre going to be deported, something happened and they became citizens of the United States.
Folks, this could be the great Trojan horse. We have people coming into our country. We have no idea -- they are coming in from the Middle East -- we have no idea who they are. I used the term extreme, I made it up -- now, Hillary is copying it -- but we need extreme vetting but we dont need anybody until we find out whats going on from these regions of the world.
And we want to help -- and we want to build safe zones and we want to have other people pay for the safe zones because right now, we have $20 trillion worth of debt. Its going to be very destructive unless somebody very, very good and very, very smart and knows what he -- in this case I have to say he, theres two of us -- is doing -- is doing.
But I will tell you, President Obama has doubled the national debt. So, over 200 years of debt and in seven and a half years hes doubled it, think of it. So, we have almost $20 trillion. So, were going to get Gulf states who are loaded up with money, loaded up with money, were going to get the Gulf states to pay for safe zones.
Well lead the project like its called OPM, I do that all the time in business called Other Peoples Money. Theres nothing like doing things with other peoples money because it takes the risk, you get a good chunk of it and it takes the risk. Were going to do this in this case from a humanitarian standpoint, OPM, Other Peoples Money.
Well do safe zones but we cannot have these people come into the United States. We dont know who they are. We know nothing about them. You saw what happened two days ago. We cannot continue these policies. We have enough problems in our country.
Look at what happened to Germany. Look at whats happening in France. We cannot allow this to happen. Hillary Clinton wants open borders. She wants people to pour in. Barack Obama just approved over 100,000 people three days ago to come into this country from Syria. We cant do this, folks. Were not going to have a country left, OK?
And think about that. And then Im going to read The Snake, Al Wilson. Years ago, he wrote it. Its actually a song -- pretty cool song -- but the words is what Im talking about because we dont know what were doing but actually if you sit down and think about it, we know whats going to happen. And this is whats going to happen if we keep allowing these open borders and if we keep taking in tens of thousands of people that we frankly know nothing about and your law enforcement will tell you that they know nothing and theres no real way to vet these people.
On her way to work one morning. Down the path along the lake. A tender hearted woman saw a poor half frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh, well, she cried, Ill take you in and Ill take care of you. Take me in oh tender woman, take me in, for heavens sake, take me in oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake.
She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk. And then laid him by her fireside with some honey and some milk. Now, she hurried home from work that night, as soon as she arrived. She found that pretty snake shed taken in, had been revived. Take me in, oh tender woman, Take me in, for heavens sake, take me in, oh tender woman, cried the broken snake.
Now, she clutched him to her bosom, youre so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadnt brought you in by now surely you might have died. Now, she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in, oh tender woman, take me in, for heavens sake, take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the vicious snake.
I saved you, cried the woman, and youve bit me, heavens why? You know your bite is poisonous and now Im going to die. Oh shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I took you in, you knew damn well I was a snake, you knew everything about me before you took me in.
Very simple. Very simple. Very, very, simple.
Very, very simple. Very simple. So, we have a situation where its not so different.
Now, lets go over a couple of things because we have to repeal and we have to replace Obamacare, its a disaster.
I dont even have to talk about it. You know I used to explain it and I used to say that we have a really serious situation where your premiums are going up, your deductibles are so high, you never get to use it.
The premiums are through the roof. The deductibles are so high, its a disaster. Were repealing and replacing. Were going to take care of our vets. Were going to take care of our military. We are going to take care of our vets.
Were going to appoint Supreme Court justices that truly believe in our Constitution, OK? Big thing, thats a big thing. Were going to get rid of common core. Were bringing education local, right?
We are going to protect our second amendment which is under siege. Were going to protect it. Totally under siege and were going to protect it and the NRA, these are great people, they endorsed me.
And Ill tell you what, between Supreme Court judges, second amendment, Obamacare. And then obviously most important, our depleted military -- all of these things -- we have the greatest people on earth in our military but its so depleted with the equipment theyre getting, with all of the problems they have. We are going to rebuild our military and were going to take care of our vets. We have to.
And lastly, we have some of the worst trade deals ever made, headed by NAFTA. Other countries have ripped us like youve never seen before, vast parcels of land throughout our country including this state are empty with fallen buildings, empty, just empty. When you see it, its so sad. You see buildings that were vibrant 30 years ago and now those companies have gone into other countries in particular into Mexico. And a lot of them have been closed because of what China has done to us.
We are going to renegotiate our trade deals with our smartest and best business people. Those deals -- those deals are going to be from horrible job-sucking deals to -- were going to reverse it. Were going to have a highway that goes in two directions, not in one direction out of the United States.
Were losing our jobs. Were losing our taxes. Were losing our money and its getting worse, OK? Just so you understand, you think its over, its getting worse. In fact, its getting worse by far.
We are going to be a trader. Were going to have free trade. I believe in free trade. But were going to make great deals instead of horrible deals, because NAFTA and these horrible deals that were signed by numerous people, the World Trade Organization, disaster for us, the Korean trade deal, you got to see, signed by and wanted by Hillary Clinton, one of the worst deals Ive ever seen. It was going to add hundreds of thousands of jobs to the United States, instead, its the exact opposite. And its been a great deal for South Korea, its been a horrible deal -- a horrible deal for the United States. So, we are going to make our country so rich again. And a woman came up to me -- a wonderful woman not so long ago, she said, you know, Mr. Trump, I hate it when youre going to say -- and you say it -- youre going to make our country wealthy again or youre going to make our country rich again. It doesnt sound nice."",37:18.0,38:15.0,57,37 VvtOzJ4M5OU,116,Donald Trump,I said

So, we have no choice because were going to save your Social Security as you have it and were going to save lots of things that we have but we have a country thats essentially a debtor nation right now.
