Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Missoula, Montana|October 18, 2018
I love these hangars. I love a hangar. Theres nothing like a hangar. You get out of the plane, you walk over, and we have massive crowds. We dont have to turn so many away, but there are a lot of people still trying to get. Should we wait or should we start right now? Start? We start. This is a great crowd.
Oh, Montana to me is a very big and powerful state, I can tell you that. At least it will be after Matt Rosendale becomes your senator. Hes great. But Im thrilled to be here in Montana with thousands of loyal, hard-working, incredible American patriots... Hard to believe Im saying this, because it was an incredible time, less than two years ago, but almost two years ago, right?
That was some day, that was some evening, that was some period. That was a movement like weve never, ever seen before. And here we are again. Its going to be like -- doesnt seem long, but it flies. You know, when youre having a good time, and when youre doing a good job, time flies, right? Time flies.
And in just 19 days, the people of this incredible state are going to send Matt Rosendale to the U.S. Senate to protect your jobs and protect your Second Amendment, which is under siege. This, I would think, is a very big Second Amendment place. I wouldnt want to be the one that walks into your house and says, "Give me that gun." Right?
Nobody has the courage to do that. But Matt is going to protect your Second Amendment. And hes going to defend your borders, and were doing a good job on those borders with the worst laws youve ever seen. And we are making America great again together. Really are. This is truly an incredible time for our country.
The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in over 50 years. Think about it. More Americans are now working than ever before. Here in Montana, household incomes have reached an all-time high. Think of that. Think of that. And we watch Montana. We watch your miners. We watch your loggers, your ranchers, your farmers.
We watch Montana. And, you know, two years ago, you watched over me, because we won this state by a lot. Right? That was one of those quickies. I love those states. You know, the polls close. Polls have just closed in the state of Montana. Trump has won Montana. You know, its like... They say it, because when its that big, they announce it within seconds.
We like the -- we like the -- its just a flowing. They do comma. They dont do -- they do a comma. Trump has won Montana. But youve been great to me. Were also taking care of your veterans. You have a lot of veterans in Montana. And our military -- you know, weve rebuilt and are rebuilding our military.
Well soon be more powerful than ever before. And hopefully we wont have to use it. But theres something about having it. All of a sudden, they say, OK, lets forget about that. Thats the way life works, isnt it? Were going to have the most powerful military by far that weve ever had. And a lot of its already coming, those brand-new, beautiful planes, those incredible stealth F-35s, the -- you have the F-35, you have the F-18s, the Super Dupers, the Hornets.
We have them all. Weve got them coming left and right, and you know the great thing? Theres nothing more important than the military, but we build them all right here in the USA. We dont send them to other countries to be built. We build them right here. We have the best military equipment in the world.
We build the best. Theres nothing even close. Best missiles, best planes, best ships, best everything. We build them here, and theres nothing like best submarines. Submarines, were so far ahead of everybody, forget it. Under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, and America is winning, because we are finally putting America first again.
Its America first. You know that. Were putting America first. You havent heard that for a long time, for many, many decades, you havent heard. Just last week, we achieved another historic victory for the American people. In a beautiful ceremony at the White House, we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh.
And those Democrats treated him badly. Very unfair. That was an unfair deal. From the second the Supreme Court vacancy opened, Democrats were on a heartless campaign of political and personal destruction. It was disgraceful. Before he was even chosen, before I even knew who I was going to pick, they were saying horrible things about my candidate.
I said, I havent picked anyone yet. Theyre great people. That was terrible. What they did was terrible. And what they did to Brett Kavanaugh and his beautiful family is a national disgrace that will not be soon forgotten. Remember that. And come Election Day, Americans will remember Kavanaugh and they will remember all sorts of other things, because that was a shameful act.
And there are many other shameful acts, including what theyre doing to our border by saying were not going to give you the laws that you need to protect our country. But were taking it, and were doing it, and we have great things happening. This will be an election of Kavanaugh, the caravan, law and order, and common sense.
Thats what its going to be. Its going to be an election of those things, law and order, Kavanaugh, you remember commonsense, and remember its going to be an election of the caravan. You know what Im talking about. You know what Im talking about. And now were starting to find out -- and I wont say it 100 percent -- Ill put a little tiny question mark at the end -- but were probably not going to need it, but we have the fake news back there.
Fake news. But a lot of money has been passing to people to come up and try and get to the border by Election Day, because they think thats a negative for us. Number one, theyre being stopped. And number two, regardless, thats our issue. So this is the problem with them. They have one thing. They stick together.
They vote together. Theyre bad politicians. They have horrible policy. They hate ICE. They dont like our military. They dont like our vets. Theyre always fighting us on that. They have lousy policy. The one thing, they stick together, but they wanted that caravan and there are those that say that caravan didnt just happen.
It didnt just happen. A lot of reasons that caravan, 4,000 people. But I just want to thank the Mexican government, because theyre stopping it hopefully before it ever gets to Mexico. As you know, I am willing to send the military to defend our southern border, if necessary. All because of the illegal immigration onslaught brought by the Democrats, because they refuse to acknowledge or to change the laws.
They like it. They also figure everybody coming in is going to vote Democrat. You know. Hey, theyre not so stupid, when you think about it, right? But they are crazy. And the crazy Democrats refuse to support any form of border security legislation to fix our absolutely horrible, old-fashioned, loophole-ridden immigration laws.
We have the worst laws anywhere in the world. We have the dumbest laws anywhere in the world. Somebody comes in and we say, excuse me, a foot hits the ground. You know, if a foot hits the ground, were not allowed to say, hey, go back. Every other country in the world, they say go back. Cant come in. Sorry.
A foot hits the ground, we have to by law, with these horrible people that are making their own rulings, having nothing to do with our Constitution, we have to take those people in, even if theyre, criminals and we have hardened criminals coming in. You think those people are perfect? Theyre not perfect.
You have some hardened, bad people coming in. And by law we have to take their name, and then we have to release. Its called catch and release. You ever hear of this one? You catch them, you find out about them. Even if you find out bad things, you catch them and you release them. And then you say, come back for a court case.
Theres only a problem. Theres not enough judges in the world to take care of it. And I will say, I have caused the problem. Im taking full blame. You know why? Everyones like in shock. Its my -- hey, look, fake news, its my problem. I caused it. Because I have created such an incredible economy, I have created so many jobs.
I have made this country with you so great that everybody wants to come in. So theyre all pouring in, or trying to. So with the worst laws in the world, were doing a hell of a job. But weve made our country strong. Weve made our country respected and people want to come in. Most importantly, what we have to do, we need votes, meaning we need Republicans to vote.
You know, you keep hearing we have a majority. We have a majority that if somebody has a cold, if somebodys not feeling well, we lose our majority. Thats how it is. Its not -- we have like almost -- like identical. We have to have more votes so we can put in strong, conservative Republican, but commonsense.
Its not even Republican -- its commonsense policies. Commonsense. Thats why we have a lot of Democrats that support us, frankly, we have a lot of the Democrats that arent crazy. They have intelligence. Because the Democrat Party has gone so far left that nobody knows what to do. Its become radical resistance.
You ever see their signs? Resist. They say, what are you going to resist? I dont know. Do you ever see when the fake news interviews them? And then they try and cut it, but they -- theyll go to a person holding a sign who gets paid by Soros or somebody, right? Thats what happens. Well, did you see with -- with now Justice Kavanaugh, did you see -- and, by the way, also, with Justice Neil Gorsuch.
How good is he? Thats a great two people. But did you see the signs? Theyre brand-new. Theyre beautiful, the black-and-white signs. Everybody has the same size, right from the finest printer in Washington. Do you think the people -- those are not signs made in the basement. They were all identical. And I pointed that out, and the next day everybody had signs that looked like they were made in the basement.
I didnt see any of the black and white ones. Its a whole -- hey, look, theres a lot of rigged things going on in this country, you know about that. There are a lot of rigged things going on. Just ask Bernie Sanders. You think things are rigged, Bernie? Do you think things are rigged, Bernie?
You could ask me, too. I could tell you about rigging, Ill tell you what. But we fight like nobody ever fought before. You know, we do -- we fight, and we fight, and we win, and we fight harder than anybody ever fought. And then they say, oh, its obstruction. Its -- if you fight back today, its called obstruction.
No, no, no. We fight back. Call it whatever the hell you want. We fight back. Obstruction. You know, I just walked in, and a big, strong guy grabbed me. And he was almost crying. It happens every time. And many times. And he said, sir, Mr. President, thank you so much for saving our country. And, you know, now Ive -- I hear it all the time, those exact words.
Thank you for saving our country. And at first I had to think about it, months ago. I really had to think about it. You see what we did with taxes. Forget taxes, with so many things, more important than taxes, although those big tax cuts, they did come in handy, didnt they? Everybody benefited from that.
But regulations -- so many things, you add it all up, and they say thank you very much, Mr. President, for saving our country. Well, the truth is, we have all together -- because this has been a movement like weve never seen before in this country, like probably almost every country theyve never seen a movement like what happened with us in 2016. And we all together -- not me. Im a spokesperson.
By the way, how have I done? Have I done OK? I was speaking to a big politician the other day. It was sort of funny. And he was great. Hes a great guy. But he was trying to make a point. He wanted me to do something a certain way. He said, sir, I have won five elections. Ive run eight times. So Ive won, sir, five -- I know what Im doing.
Im a professional. Ive been doing this for a long time. So think of it. Hes -- he runs eight times. Sir, I won five elections. I said, well, you got me there. I ran once, and I won one election, but its the presidency, right? Thats right. The presidency. Its the presidency. Thats -- think of it. Were one for one.
Were going to soon be two for two, and thats going to be it. Although a lot of the fake news said that hes not going to stop at eight years. Hes going longer. Well never take it away from him. This is, like, the group of people -- first they say he doesnt know what hes doing. Perhaps hes incompetent.
He doesnt know what hes doing. Its terrible, et cetera. Then, two minutes later, they say hes going -- for eight years, hes going to take it for long -- you cant have both. You can only go one way or the other. You cant do both. No, eight years is going to be fine, right? Eight years, its going to be fine.
Its all the time we need. Thats all the time we need to make America great again. Make America great again. Is that -- is that maybe the greatest slogan in the history of runs? You remember Hillarys slogan? It was the worst slogan. She paid like a million dollars for some guy to make the slogan. And after I dissected it at one speech, they changed it the next day.
Come together or some -- something terrible. Come together. Oh, shes a great unifier. Right. Great unifier. Crooked Hillary is a great unifier.  It is incredible the deep state where they dont even look at her. Isnt it incredible? Think of it, 33,000 e-mails, she gets a subpoena from the United States Congress.
Forget about all the other things, forget about -- and you can never forget about Benghazi, ever. But forget about everything else. Never forget Benghazi. But forget about all the other things. Thirty-three thousand e-mails, she gets a subpoena, not like a subpoena from you or you or that young person right back there.
A subpoena from the United States Congress. She gets it. Then she deletes 33,000 e-mails. And she acid-washes -- she acid-washes -- this way, its a very expensive process, never used, its never used, because it costs so much. Its called acid-washing. Its called bleach -- its called five different names.
But I like acid-washing, because that really says it. She acid-washes 33,000, so that nobody can ever find -- but theyre around someplace. I think that maybe -- maybe theyre at the State Department. The State Department -- we have a great man now at the State Department, Mike Pompeo. But maybe theyre at the State Department.
They could very well be at the Department of Justice, if you can believe that whole deal. But were just being quiet. Were being quiet. Do you know why? Theres been no collusion. Can you imagine -- think of this -- I was on the plane before, I told somebody -- lets say were losing the state of Montana.
That will never happen. And I get an urgent call from my people in Montana. And Im in New York or Im in Washington. And they say sir, sir, were losing the state of Montana. Is there anything you can do? Can you imagine me saying, oh, I dont know what to do, gee, lets call the Russians, maybe they could help?
Can you believe -- no, can you believe the stupidity of this? Lets call the Russians?  If I ever called the Russians, the first one to know about it would be the state of Montana, and they wouldnt be too happy. Can you imagine? Lets call the Russians? Its a disgrace. It was an excuse made by the Democrats for losing an election that, frankly, they should win, because the Electoral College -- remember, I couldnt get 270. There was no way to 270, you need 270. There was no -- I went to -- thats exactly right, 306. I went -- thats right, you heard.
How many times you hear -- there is no way? So I went to Maine, I love Maine, by the way, one vote. Got one. One. So I went to Maine four or five times. I love the people of Maine. And I ended up winning that one, but I didnt need it, because we won Michigan and Wisconsin and Pennsylvania and a lot of states.
And a lot of states. No, Ill tell you what, it was an exciting -- it was an exciting time. And next time, Democrats are going to learn where they have to run. You got to run in the right places. These were not great competitors, but they were fun. Actually, they were more effective, in my opinion, after the election than before the election.
Does that make any sense? You know, that to me makes a lot of sense. Wiseguys. The Democrats have turned -- I love you, too. Who said that? Who said that? Who said that? Its finally a woman. You know, I get it from the men all the time.  And so far, every guy that said I love you, theyre just not my type.
I finally heard it from a woman. Thank you. Thank you. And look at all the women for Trump signs. Here we go again. Its the same thing. Everyone says, but will he get the women? There are -- you know, these fakes on television, the pundits, you know, real geniuses, theyd really done well in predicting me. Hes never going to run.
He has too good a life. Hes just doing it for fun. Hell never run, but hes having a good time. I said, thats a good time? So I ran. Then September, one by one, we knock them off, knock them off, knock them off, remember? Eighteen people, 17 opponents, very talented opponents, in many cases, not in all cases.
But in many cases. I remember Charles Krauthammer. And he was talking... Go ahead. Well, he treated you better than he treated me. Thats OK. But he was talking about the field. I hadnt entered. And he said, why would he do this? This is the single greatest field of Republicans ever assembled for an election.
And I looked at my wife -- by the way, how good is our first lady? Good? Is she doing great? People love our first lady. Look at all the signs. We love our first lady. We love our first lady. Just came back from Africa. Just came back from Africa. And she got great -- people thought it -- she -- they love her.
They -- she went into areas that -- it was such sad because such poverty. She went in with her arms wide open. And the New York Times and some others, all they could talk about -- she wore a certain that. And they said it represented a colonialization. And everybody was trying to figure -- and I think it came out of Los Angeles.
I think they actually bought it at Los Angeles, which is such a -- but they love the job shes doing. And yesterday they had a problem, right? You saw that. Fire on the plane. And I get a call. Sir, your wife is up in the air. Theres a fire on the plane. I said, dont tell me that. Dont tell me. And they came down quickly.
Great, great people, great pilots, great pilots. And she was cool. She was cool. I did have to -- once I found out everything, I asked, how was she? Was she scared? No, sir. What was she like? She was so cool, we couldnt believe it. Everybody else had cloth on their face, and I probably would have, also, cloth that was water, right, wet, on their face.
She sat there, hey, what else is new? Thats the way she is. Shes a great first lady. Shes doing an incredible job. And you think its easy for her to be a first lady, not so easy. Shes done an incredible job. But Charles Krauthammer -- so he said -- oh, he said theres never been a field like this. And I actually went to my wife, I said, you know, a very smart man just said theres never been a field so talented as this.
But one by one -- and they are -- and now a lot of them are friends of mine, almost all of them are friends of mine. You know, you go through wars together and then -- if youre smart, and if theyre smart, you get along. I have great relationships. Ted Cruz has become a friend of mine. Hes doing great in Texas.
Marco Rubio, Chris Christie, Mike Huckabee, he was in there at the beginning. Remember he got up and he said I dont know what you guys are wasting your time for. Nobody is going to beat Trump. Why are you doing this? You cant beat him. In fact, do you remember, he said, in fact, I just went out and bought a Trump and Im dropping out after this debate, but none of you guys are going to beat Trump.
That was Mike Huckabee. That was pretty cool. That was pretty cool. It was very good for my ego. In fact that might have been my worst debate because I was so impressed with what he said, I didnt think about anything. No, Mike is great. We have -- we had such great people. We had such great people. And a lot of talented people.
And the end result is this is where we are. And were doing a lot of good. The Democrats have truly turned into an angry mob, bent on destroying anything or anyone in their path. And your senator is one of them. Let me tell you, your senator is disgraceful what he did. This election you will decide which party is in control of Congress.
Thats true. And if they win, even if they win the House, its going to be just fighting, fighting, fighting. Its going to be -- well be -- you love my hair? Thank you.  She knows what to say. She knows how to make me happy. "I love your hair."  Well, the one thing that has been really great about this whole endeavor, they used to say, he wears a hairpiece, he wears a hair -- they dont say that anymore.
These people have seen me under every condition known to man. I havent heard that one in over a year. You know, when youre walking around and the wind is going crazy and youre inspecting, like I did the other day, the incredible hurricane, the horrible Hurricane Michael that devastated Florida and Georgia and Alabama got hit hard.
And then a couple of weeks before, and Michael got a piece of them, too. But a couple of weeks before, I went to North Carolina, South Carolina. You look at what happened in a little piece of Virginia. And you walk around in those conditions, you cant fake it. You cant fake it. So thats one good thing.
Nobody ever says that anymore. Thats one of the -- might be one of the best things thats happened to me in a long time.  Because my whole life, they said, is it or isnt it? Barbara Walters interviewed me. Do you mind if I play with your hair? Do you remember that? And then numerous people have done that.
But thats OK. But the choice could not be more clear. Democrats produce mobs. Republicans produce jobs. Its true. Its true. By the way, this is the most beautiful sky. Well, its big sky. I guess theres a reason for everything, right? No, its just -- I got out and Im looking -- Ive been here many times -- but I got out and Im looking -- I say, that really is big sky.
Thats beautiful. Its not only big, its really beautiful sky. Someday one of you will explain exactly why, but that is a beautiful, beautiful, big sky. But Nancy Pelosi, crying Chuck Schumer, and the radical Democrats, they want to raise your taxes, they want to impose socialism on our incredible nation, make it Venezuela, because thats whats going to happen... They want to take away your health care, because you wont be able to have it. Our country wont be able to afford it. Destroy your Second Amendment and throw open your borders to deadly drugs and vicious gangs, because plenty of them are coming across, and a lot of drugs.
Democrats have become the party of crime. Its true. Who would believe you could say that and nobody even challenges it? Nobody -- you -- who would believe -- I said -- started a couple of months ago. I said, you know, theyve really become the party of crime. I said, Im going to put that in. Im going to say that when I make speeches.
Nobodys ever challenged it. Maybe they have. Who knows? I have to always say that, because then theyll say they did actually challenge it, and theyll put like -- then theyll say he gets a Pinocchio. So maybe they did challenge it, but not very much. Its become really -- they have become the party of crime because of what they do. They would rather devastate American communities than defend Americas borders.
The Democrat Party has become too extreme to be trusted with power. Their radical policies are a danger to your family and to your country. If you want to drain the swamp, you must defeat the Democrats and you must defeat Senator Jon Tester. I mean, hes a super liberal. How do you -- I know you people. I won by a fortune of votes, right, like many, many, many votes.
And I know you. You know me. I know you. How the hell did you ever elect that guy? How did you pull that off? So were thrilled to be joined tonight by somebody whos been working with me and an incredible guy, a great human being, and a very talented senator, but somebody that loves you and he loves the country, Senator Steve Daines.
Steve? Where is he? He is a great guy. Tell you what, he is -- you know the strong, silent type? Theyre the ones I like the best. I want to be that way someday.  No, Steve Daines has been -- hes been a great representative. He loves this state. I also want you to go and vote for an incredible Montana leader, somebody thats gone to Congress, and in a short period of time, one of the most respected people in Congress, Greg Gianforte.
Hey, Greg, come up. Come up, Greg.
Let me just say, on behalf of all of Montana, Mr. President, thank you for giving us hope again.
Hes so smart. You know, weve had people -- youre on live television all over the place, and weve had people get up, speak for 20, 25 minutes. And these guys are going crazy, thats not the deal. But Greg is smart. And by the way, never wrestle him. You understand that? Never.  Any guy that can do a body slam, hes my kind of... He was my guy.
I shouldnt say this, because -- theres nothing to be embarrassed about. So I was in Rome with a lot of the leaders from other countries talking about all sorts of things, and I heard about it. And we endorsed Greg very early, but I had heard that he body-slammed a reporter. And he was way up. And he was way up. And I said, oh, this was like the day of the election, or just before, and I said, oh, this is terrible, hes going to lose the election.
Then I said, well, wait a minute, I know Montana pretty well. I think it might help him. And it did! No, hes a great guy. Tough cookie. Gregs opponent, Kathleen Williams... is a radical far-left Democrat. Shes going to be voting with Nancy Pelosi and Maxine Waters, the great Maxine Waters. Thats another beauty, isnt it? Williams wants to massively raise your taxes, and she supports Pelosis cap-and-trade tax, which is a disaster, and it would kill the Montana coal industry that we all rebuilt together in a very short period of time.
Any miners in the audience, please? How are you guys? Happy, right? Better believe it. Its coming back. Clean coal. I say beautiful, clean coal. And we have more of it than anybody. And Kathleen Williams supports open borders. She opposes the wall, which weve started and weve done a lot of work on it, but Id like to get it done quickly.
Give us the money and well do it fast, but weve started it. We got $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion, and $1.6 billion. And I want to get it finished. We need it now. And, by the way, if this scene -- if this scene of people pouring up -- if that doesnt make people want to build -- you know, in 2006, all these people -- just about all them -- they wanted a wall.
They know its the right thing. They just dont want to give us the victory. Its not like Schumer says, oh, gee, you have it -- Israel has a wall. Bibi Netanyahu -- think of it. He said it worked 99.9 percent, their wall. They have a big wall. Its in the form of a very tough fence. But they have a wall.
And Schumer knows this. And Nancy Pelosi knows this. But they just dont want to give us the victory. I know for a fact, they said, you know what, we cant let them have the wall because that would be another campaign promise fulfilled. But Ive done so many campaign -- Im so far ahead. But -- but weve started the wall.
And its moving. And were going to get it, but get me some Republican votes, please. Williams voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities and she voted in favor of giving public benefits to illegal aliens. Oh, thats a beauty. Do the people of Montana like the idea of giving public benefits to illegals? I dont think so. I dont think so. I know you very well.
My son is here all the time, Don. Hes a big fan. Hes a hunter. Hes a hunter. Big fan of Gregs. Big fan of Gregs. Hes a good hunter, that one. You people cant believe it. He grew up in a certain nice location in New York, like Fifth Avenue. He knows more about hunting and guns and rifles than maybe anybody here.
Thats the crazy thing. Thats what he loves. A few people over there say I disagree with that, but he does know it. Greg will tell you that. But everybody has to go out and vote for Greg. And finally, it is my great honor to introduce the next United States senator from Montana, Matt Rosendale. Come on up, Matt.
Come on up. Great guy. Big success. Highly respected.
Good evening, Montana. President Trump is making history again here in Montana, by golly. This is his third trip to Montana, and that does set a record. This is one for the history books again. I want to take a moment to thank our veterans and all of our military for their great service to our great nation.
You kept your promises, and I will work tirelessly every day to make good on the promises that our nation made to you. Mr. President, thank you for your support and for keeping your promises to the people of Montana. You are making America great again. And if we want to keep America great, then we need everyone here to get out and vote.
President Trump and all of his policies are on the line. So lets make history and retire Jon Tester and send President Trump the help he needs. Lets remember, it was Jon Tester who cast the deciding vote on Obamacare and got your premiums skyrocketing. I will never give up on repealing and replacing Obamacare.
We must have health care that we can actually afford. And I will make sure to always protect those with pre-existing conditions. Remember, when Jon Tester talks about supporting the Second Amendment, understand that he voted for liberal judges who will take your guns away. Im endorsed by the NRA with an A rating.
And all Jon Tester could muster up was a D. That record speaks for itself. Jon Tester does not stand with us on border security. He supports amnesty, catch and release, and sanctuary cities. Well, Im running to help our president secure the border, deport the criminals and sanctuary cities, and build that wall.
I like the wall.  Were going to build it. President Trump deserves a senator from Montana that will support his Supreme Court nominees, not oppose them 100 percent of the time like Jon Tester has done. No thanks to Jon Tester, we now have two good men and two great judges on the Supreme Court: Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.
Folks, Jon Tester has been too wrong for too long. We cant let Jon Tester and the radical, liberal resistance win this November. If they win, theyll go after President Trump and his agenda. We cant let that happen. We need everyone in this hangar and across the state to get up and do their part to win the race.
Ballots have dropped. I encourage everyone to please cast your vote and to turn them in as soon as possible. Tell your friends, your family, and your neighbors to get out and vote. I pledge to always put Montana first. And I will stand in strong support of President Trump, because the work that hes doing really is making America great again.
Thank you, Montana. Thank you, President Trump. May God bless each and every one of you and these great United States of America.
Thank you.  Thank you, Matt. And I have to say: A vote for Tester is a vote that really is going to count. Its going to count for you. Hes replacing far-left with common sense. And we really have to get out. We are looking to have some success, where right now its so impossible. We have to get Schumer and Pelosi, we have to move them around, we have to get them out.
Our new star, Maxine, we have to get them out. Theres a lot of bad things happening. I dont know, you know, you see what they do, you see what they think, and you almost say, like, can it really be possible? Can somebody not care about our military? Can somebody not care about so many other things that were doing, like taking care of our vets?
I mean, can somebody not care about tax cuts? They want to raise your taxes and they dont care about crime. Think of that. Raise your taxes and they dont care about crime. Is that really some way to get elected? How do you do that? I would never be a politician if that were my platform, I tell you. Certainly I wouldnt be successful.
But Tester says one things to voters and then always does the exact opposite. In Washington, he talks like hes from Montana and he votes like hes Nancy Pelosi. The only thing keeping Testers campaign alive are millions and millions and millions of dollars from outside liberals and radical leftists who couldnt care less about Montana.
They dont know anything about Montana. All they know is hes a vote for them. They dont know anything. They didnt come up here to talk to you. They just send a lot of money. Its crazy. Tester voted against tax cuts for Montana families, where you benefited so much. I know how important thats been. And he voted for Obamas job-killing regulations.
With those regulations, all of your energy that you take out of the ground in the cleanest way, and that makes our nation wealthy, you couldnt do it. You wouldnt be allowed to do it. All of the miners that are here, all of the people that are here, all of the steelworkers, you wouldnt have your jobs back.
You wouldnt have jobs. We were going in the wrong direction. When I came in, we were going down. And now we just hit 4.2 percent, and everyone is saying, how did that happen, right? GDP, 4.2 percent. And on immigration, Testers record can be summarized in two simple words: Open borders. Open borders. Think about it. Think about it. How about this guy in California?
I have to say, look, Im sure hes a nice guy, nice guy, young guy, they say, oh, someday he wants to be president. Oh, please let him run. But how about this guy? Running for governor, California. He wants open borders, and he wants to take care of everyones health care, everyones medical costs, right?
He wants to put more gas taxes on, where they just have a lot. But he wants to take care of everybody. So open borders, the whole world is going to go to California. And they owe about 15 zillion dollars. They owe more money than anybody knows, its not even possible for them. And hes asking everybody in the world, just come on in. Open borders, were going to take care of your health care.
Were going to take care of your schools. Were going to take care of everything. I mean, I mean, give me a break. Right? No, I saw this platform the other day. We have a good candidate there, too. Youre right. Thank you, darling. We have a good candidate there. Hes -- now, its hard for a Republican to win in California, because its become, like, crazy.
But all of a sudden are Republicans making big progress. Its going to be very interesting to see what happens in that race. But thats where Tester is coming from. He voted for amnesty for illegals and against the border wall on numerous occasions. He voted to let drugs in. He voted to let drugs in. Thats what youre doing.
You dont have the wall, you dont have a border. What you have is you have infiltration of drugs like youve never seen. We fight so hard. We just had a big victory with the Post Office, so that we can see drugs coming in from China, fentanyl, and other places. Tester voted against Kates law, legislation to stop criminal illegal aliens from repeatedly breaking into our country.
This guy came in five times, and then you know what happened. Tester voted against enhanced vetting for refugees. I said enhanced vetting, and people said, oh, what a terrible term. I dont think its terrible. We want to have people come into our country, but they have to come in based on merit, not based on a lottery.
We need people. We need people. Our employment rates one of the lowest, as I said, over 50 years. We need people to work in the companies. Japan, I was speaking to Prime Minister Abe the other day. Theyre opening up new car factories and plants in Michigan, in Ohio, in Pennsylvania, in Kentucky. At my very strong urging, because we have a massive trade deficit with Japan.
We have a massive trade deficit with everybody. But were changing it. We made the great deal for your farmers with Canada and with Mexico. And every other business, by the way. And were not going to have our companies leaving the United States anymore. Theyre going to stay here, and theyre going to expand in our country.
And Tester voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities. He likes sanctuary cities. Jon Tester would rather protect criminal aliens than American citizens, which is why he needs to be voted out of office. He does. And by the way, Matt -- Matt is a really successful guy. Respected by everybody. I know people that knew him from 10 years ago.
Long before he ever thought of this, 20 years ago, just was always a high-end, really respected guy. And hes going to be a great senator for you. Hes going to be a great senator, Matt Rosendale. And Matt said, Tester has a D rating from the NRA. I didnt know they gave ratings that low. How can you -- OK, ready?
Were in Montana. How can you have a D rating from the NRA and get votes? No, no, seriously, did anyone know he had a D rating? I saw that, I said, well, that should be the end of that election. You know, there are some places you can have a D rating, I guess. But he has a D rating in Montana? I dont think thats going to last long.
And he voted for liberal Obama judges who want to take away your Second Amendment. They do want to take it away. Just in case you havent figured that one out, thats a tough one. And one of the things that will be happening -- you know, youre happy that we have two great Supreme Court justices that we just put on. You know, presidents go a long time, they never have a judge.
Ive had two, and its not even two years, think of that. So think of that. But under scenarios, we could have two more, three more, maybe four more. I wish everybody great health, I do. I really do. But, you know, we could have a scenario where we have more. Thats why you have to be careful, because you think the two is good.
That could get overwritten very quickly. You think youre looking good, but -- and you are, but, frankly, it can be overridden very quickly. Jon Tester joined the shameful Democrat mob. They were calling it a mob. Now, a lot of people are calling -- these people are starting to think of it as a mob. And voted against Kavanaugh, voted against -- I guessed, I didnt even know -- did he vote against Justice Gorsuch?
He did. How do you vote against him? Right? Top student at Harvard. Top student at Columbia. Top student at Oxford. Oxford. And they vote against him? How do you do that? And hes just, like, led an impeccable life. Justice Kavanaugh, number one in his class at Yale, I mean, these are extraordinary people.
And they had a great life. Look, its not about grades or marks or -- its one thing. But these people have led incredible lives. And in the case especially of Justice Kavanaugh, the lies that were made up, the stories that came out, and he didnt -- he honestly -- Im pretty good at this stuff -- he honestly never heard of this stuff.
He never heard of it. It was a big con job. Youve heard me say that. It was a con job. See, with me, theyre doing con jobs, too, but at least Im sort of -- thats been my whole life, Ive been -- people are -- I expect like things like this. Theyre given a big, yeah, witch hunt. Theyre doing a big con job.
But on him, I dont think he was expecting that. When I said -- when I shook his hand, I have to tell you, Ive never told this. I shook his hand. And I said, Brett, congratulations, Ive chosen you, and I have a list of 23 people or so that are phenomenal, top students, top everything, top judges. All judges, I think.
All judges. Doesnt have to be a judge, by the way, but theres something nice about putting judges on the Supreme Court, right? I dont know. Somehow I think putting a businessman would be nice or a woman. How about a businesswoman? But -- but something nice about -- doesnt have to be a judge, would you believe it? But I shook his hand, Ill never forget it. I shook his hand, and I said, Brett, youre like so good, educationally, youre a great scholar, youre talented, incredible wife, incredible daughters, your life has been amazing.
Dont forget, six checks under the seventh from the FBI, flawless. I said, Brett, congratulations, this is going to be a piece of cake.  I meant it. I said, this is going to go so fast. Its going to be so easy. You are perfect. You are something special. And he suffered. He suffered needlessly by vicious people, like Feinstein, like -- remember?
Do you think she leaked? She leaked. She leaked. Remember that? No, I didnt leak, remember? Remember? Senator John Cornyn, great guy from Texas. He asked a question. Did you leak? She was startled, because she was unprepared. No -- no -- did -- what? Did I leak? No, no, we didnt leak, no. No, we didnt leak.
That was the worst body language I think Ive ever seen. Remember? Remember Jon Lovitz, the liar, remember Jon Lovitz? Yeah, yeah, Im a businessman, thats right. I went to -- yeah, yeah, I went to Harvard. Yeah, thats right. I went to Harvard. Im a businessman. That was, like, a female version of Jon Lovitz.
And then you had Spartacus, right? Thats not Spartacus. I know him for a long time. You know, I dont want to speak badly about them, though, because, you know, I want most of these people -- I think all of them -- to get through the process. Theyre all fighting to run against us. And I dont want to hit them so hard that they dont make it, because maybe theyll find somebody of talent.
So far, theres nobody on the list. So I dont want to kill them. I dont want to do it. Its too early to be doing it. But he didnt do well at Newark, New Jersey. He ran it right the hell into the ground. And thats what hed do with our country. So you have a lot of them. Ill go over a couple of more names, but, no, I wont. How about -- how about sleepy Joe Biden?
Sleepy Joe? Remember, he challenged me to a fight, and that was fine. And when I said he wouldnt last long, hed be down faster than Greg would take him down.  Hed be down so fast. Remember? Faster than Greg. Id have to go very fast. Id have to immediately connect. But -- so he challenges me to a fight, and the fake news said, oh, isnt that cute?
Thats so wonderful. Remember, he says hes going to -- he would like to take me behind the barn if he were younger, you know? So he challenges me to a fight. And its fine. I said he shouldnt do that because Id take him down so fast. And they said, what a vicious statement made. How vicious. Hes talking about fighting.
What a vicious -- do you believe this? Thats why its the fake news. Remember? I responded so nicely. And they made a big deal out of it, but thats OK. And Jon Tester led the Democrat mob in the effort to destroy the reputation of a great man, Admiral Ronny Jackson. Now, Admiral Jackson I got to know well.
Hes a doctor, in addition to being an admiral. Hes a handsome, wonderful father. His son had just graduated high in his class at Annapolis, incredible young man, beautiful family, incredible wife. And Tester said things about him which were a disgrace. And I say, the people of Montana would not stand for it, what he said about Ronny Jackson.
He was the doctor for President Bush, for President Obama, and for President Trump. And he was high quality. And its my fault. I said, Admiral, how would you like to head up the V.A.? I want somebody great. Youre an admiral, youre a leader. And hes 50 years old. He never had a problem in his whole life.
A little bit like Justice Kavanaugh, you know, really a very fine, high-quality, handsome guy. Never had a problem. And he said, sir, I had never thought of it, but Ill do whatever your wish is, sir. He didnt really want it. He didnt really want. And he might not have been qualified. But heres a doctor at a high level, and hes a man that everybody respected.
I saw that. Respect is so important. And I know hed do a good job and hes put his heart into it. Hes very smart. But he said, sir, if youd want me to do it -- he really didnt, he was all set, 50 years old. He was going to get a second star, he was going to retire and go into running a big hospital system or something.
He was all set. But he didnt want to disappoint me. So he said, sir, if youd like me to do it, I will do it. I said, well, Ill tell you what, Ronny, youll be fantastic. He would have done a great job. And I announced that he was going to be my choice, and he was attacked so viciously, so violently by Jon Tester like Ive never seen before.
True. All lies, all made-up stuff. Remember knocking at somebodys door at 2 oclock in the morning? Remember that? Knocking. And I checked with Secret Service. Did that happen? No, sir, it didnt. They checked it. Sir, that didnt happen. They came in, I want to know. Sir, it didnt happen. Didnt even come close to happening.
I think he wasnt even there. They made up a series of lies that were horrible. And Jon Tester led the group. Thats really why Im here. Its not that we need to vote so badly, I think were going to do very nicely in the Senate, I hope. I think we should pick up seats. But I have -- first of all, I have a lot of respect for the man thats running, Matt.
But -- but also... Also, Im here because I can never forget what Jon Tester did to a man thats of the highest quality. You would have loved this man in this state. Hed be one of you. Hed be one of you. And so I said I got to come, I got to come here, I got to help, because what he did was unfair. What he did -- what he did was vicious.
What he did was as they did with Judge Kavanaugh. Same thing. Same thing. Almost -- almost -- if this is believable -- worse. And he sat and he didnt know what hit him. He didnt know what hit him. To which I originally said, welcome to the world of Washington, D.C., isnt this is lovely place? But this was an innocent, wonderful man whos led a life thats incredible, and he was so badly hurt.
And so I had to come here and tell you that story. What happened -- and weve had it checked out so carefully -- and the Secret Service guys are fantastic. And I wanted a full report. I wanted a full report. Doctor Ronny Jackson, special man. Tester doesnt share your values. He shares the values of the Feinsteins and the Cory Bookers, and how about Pocahontas, Elizabeth Warren?
You know, the one good thing about her test is that there was so little she had less than the average American. I used to say I have more Indian blood in me than she does and I have none. I used to say that.  And I was right. But the only good thing she did, I think she probably disqualified, because she made a fool out of herself.
But I think the only good thing she did, I cant call her Pocahontas anymore. Right? I came up with the name Pocahontas, and they once said you must apologize for that. I said, why? Well, its not nice what youre doing. I said, OK, Id like to apologize to the real Pocahontas. But not to the fake -- not to the fake Pocahontas.
Not to the fake Pocahontas. But its true, she has so little Indian blood. She has none, that I cannot call her Pocahontas anymore. But if you dont mind, Ill continue. Do you mind? Because itll show everybody what a phony she is. If you vote to elect a Republican House and a Republican Senate, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut your regulations, raise your income, and make our country great again.
Thats happening. We will protect Medicare and Social Security. And Democrats will destroy your Social Security. And they will destroy your Medicare. We will continue confirming judges who interpret the Constitution as written. We will fully secure the border. We will pass Kates law, stop sanctuary cities, stop catch and release, end visa lottery, end chain migration.
And we will keep the criminal drug dealers and terrorists the hell out of our country. We will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, dependents to independents, and from poverty to prosperity. For years, you watched as your leaders apologized for America. They apologized. Now you have a president who is standing up and proud, but standing up for America.
We are standing up for your values, we are standing up for Montana, and we are proudly standing up for our great national anthem. But to continue this incredible momentum, I need you to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and get out and vote for Greg Gianforte and Matt Rosendale.
These are great people. A vote for a Republican Congress is a vote for more jobs, more wealth, and more products made right here, like the old days, in the USA. It is a vote to respect our laws and to respect the heroes of law enforcement. They do a great job. And a vote for Republicans is a vote to reject the Democrat politics of hatred and anger and division and to celebrate the greatness and the glory of being American.
Loyal citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country, returning power to you, the American people, and thats whats happening. Thats what happened almost two years ago. This great state was settled by tough pioneer men and even tougher pioneer women. By the way, they keep saying, will he do well with women?
Remember last time? They said the same thing. We did -- we did very well with women. I think I probably won because of women, I hate to tell you, men. Remember? Now theyre starting the same thing. Its like a replay. Will he do well? Women, by the way, what do they want? They want security, both real security and economic security.
They dont want to have criminals all over the place. They want to be able to have a great family and raise a great family. They want great education for their family and their kids. Im the one that gives you that. They dont -- they dont give it to you on the other side, folks. And were giving you already better choices for health care.
I got rid of the individual mandate, which is the worst thing in Obamacare. And were running the remnants of Obamacare before it expires completely, and do you notice your premiums are going up less than theyve ever gone up? Because were doing a real job. We had the votes to repeal and replace, and somebody disappointed us a little bit.
But well get another shot. Ill tell you what, as Matt said, itll happen. Get us a couple of votes. But these are pioneer women who braved the wilderness and defied the dangers to build a life and a home and a family. These are great women. The men are, OK, too, not great, but theyre OK. The men are OK. What the heck?
The women are exceptional. They didnt have a lot of money, they didnt have a lot of luxury, but they all had one thing in common. They loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God. Right? These courageous Montana patriots did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy and destroy our proud, proud, proud American heritage.
Couldnt do it. For the sake of our freedom and for the sake of our children, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win. Remember I told you that. Ive been telling you that for a long time. Were winning again. Our country is respected again. I can tell you, I meet the leaders of other countries, they say, Mr. President, congratulations.
Do you know that we have the hottest economy, as big as we are? We were going down. We have the hottest economy on Earth. People are moving back in. Were winning again. Were respected again. We will not bend. We will not break. We will never give in, we will never give up. We will never back down. We will never surrender.
