Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Albuquerque, NM|October 30, 2016
Thank you. Wow. Thank you very much. You bet. U.S.A. You bet. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. It is so great to be here in New Mexico. In nine days, we are going to win this state and we are going to take back the White House. Thank you. I am going to fight for every citizen and every worker in New Mexico and we need to fight.
Its time we fought. I wanted to just tell you the polls have come out and they have just been amazing. Even before the big blow up on Friday. Were leading in many of the polls. Were leading in national polls. We are leading in Ohio. We are leading in Iowa. And by the way, we are leading in Florida. Leading in Florida big.
Were leading big in Florida.
Were leading in many, many states. And I just wanted to give you a little secret. Were tied. Thats not so good. Were tied in New Mexico. Were going to win New Mexico. Were going to win. You know we set this up just a couple of days ago because we heard how well we are doing here and traditionally you understand Republicans arent quite there, right, yet.
But this is a Republican. Who is there? Were going to win this state. Were gonna be very happy. Im gonna fight to bring your jobs back. To make your community safe and secure and to deliver the honest government America deserves. This is a great movement folks.
This is really a great movement, a movement like theyve never seen before. We are now on the cusp of incredible historic change that transfers power from a failed political establishment and returns that power to the families and communities of your beautiful state, a beautiful state. Early voting is underway so make sure you send your ballot.
Whos voted? Whoa! Oh! Thats great! Im leaving, you all voted. Ill leave. Wow! Thats a big percentage! Thats fantastic!
All right. So for the like 7% that hasnt sent your ballot, hasnt voted, please vote. If you want you can leave immediately. No, thats a little late but get out and vote. Everything matters and it gonna be close. It shouldnt be close to New Mexico. Were bringing your jobs back, folks. It shouldnt be close.
Real change for New Mexico begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare. Great energetic group, I have to say. But you know. its like this all over the country. Its like this all over the country. We fill up hangers on one days notice. Its all over the country. Its like this. They want to see America be great again.
Thats what they want. Thats what they want.
Theyre tired, theyre tired of the Iran deals. Theyre tired of the jobs being stolen from us. Theyre tired of a great, great military the greatest people on earth but theyre military is so depleted. Theyve let it go using jet fighters that are so old they cant get parts to them anymore. This is it -- this isnt what we stand for.
Your largest health insurer Presbyterian Health Plan is pulling out. You probably heard it. Blue Cross in your state raising rates by, do you wanna hear this? Put your hands cause Ill depress you. Youll gonna go home and go to sleep, 93%. This is Obamacare, 93%. I just left the great state of Arizona, feels good because they are at a hundred and sixteen percent increase.
And it doesnt work. Its horrible healthcare, doesnt work. The deductible is so high youll never get to use it. Its so high. So its a horrible thing. Were gonna repeal it, were gonna replace it. We have so many unbelievable alternatives, much less expensive, much less expensive, and great healthcare.
Much lower deductibles, great health care and much less expensive. Its horrible how we got into this mess. Do you believe it? We have wars we never win. We have borders that dont exist. Everything we do just doesnt work. You know the fact is, I say it all the time. our country doesnt win anymore. Well gonna start winning again with everything.
Well gonna start winning again.
New Mexico will be one of the states hurt most by Obamacare. You see that with the numbers I just gave you unfortunately. And New Mexico families wont have enough money left to pay their bills or to get medicine for their children. You are amazing people I tell you. Youre great people. Youre great people.
Youre great people. A lot of people in this country, theyve been hurt. Theyve been hurt by incompetent politicians, by politicians that just take care of themselves, their special interests. Youre great people. So elect me and we will stop the premium hikes in New Mexico and all over the country. We will stop the Obamacare madness.
Its madness. Its madness.
In Minnesota where the premium increase will be close to 60%, not nearly as high as New Mexico, the Democratic governor said, "The affordable Health Act is no longer affordable." And I use this quote because its so correct. Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare making it even more expensive, in fact, much more expensive.
And, and, folks, its not gonna work ok? And I said it before they pass it and it was passed with lies, you remember Obama 28 times. "You can keep your plan, you can keep your doctor." Guess what, you cant keep either. And he also didnt talk about these kind of increases.
And next year its gonna be worse. Next years gonna be worse. So she wants to double down. I think shes got bigger problems right now if you want to really know the truth. What a time we are living in. Im asking for your votes so we can replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in New Mexico and in the United States.
Real change also means restoring honesty to our government. We all know about Hillarys mounting legal troubles that she has brought onto herself with her serial willful purposeful and deliberate criminal conduct. Hillary Clinton is not the victim. You, the American people, are the victims of this corrupt system in every single way.
And folks, this is your last chance to save it.
I really believe that all that sounds good  I love the sound but thats an old one that makes a lot of noise, thats OK, I still love the sound. This is your last chance. You are not gonna do it in four years from now. Its not gonna happen. Its not gonna happen. You know that. You know whats going on. Now the FBI has found, youre not gonna believe this one, this just happened, another 650,000 emails.
How do you get to six hundred fif -- I think thats called the mother loan. I think they found them all. So the 33,000 that she deleted and bleached, I think she gonna be in the 650. But how do you have that many emails.
What do you do? Sit down all day and just keep on typing? Hey, no wonder, nothing gets done in our country. This is the single biggest scandal since Watergate. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end the rampant government corruption. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words that we, not me, we are all about to say.
Ready? When we win on November 8, get out and vote, get out and vote, were going to Washington D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp. You know Ive, Ive made a couple of these massive speeches today. The crowds are always so big and I said, You know, drain this swamp, I didnt like it.
I started two weeks ago, right?" And I said "It sounds so hokey. I dont wanna do it" And they said, "No, its something thats cute, its nice. Lets see, who knows?" And I gave it to one group and they went crazy. Then I gave it to another group, they went crazier and then people at the third speaks they started screaming the words to me. I didnt even say em, "Mr. Trump, drain the swamp!" and then what happened -- Well, and then what happened -- go ahead.
Amazing! Youll never know. Youll never know in life. Youll never know what works but that one works because people are going crazy over drain the swamp and, you know, then I went and all of a sudden everybody is going crazy over because it is so descriptive.
But youll never know in life what works. Frank Sinatra did My Way. He hated the song. He didnt like it. He said it will never work and then he sang it and people loved it, sang it again and then it went up and became the No. 1 song then all of a sudden, he loved it, right? Thats the way it works. But at the code of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs and that means the great jobs.
Really, really good jobs, we lost so many of them, but great jobs for New Mexico. Right now, 70 million American women and children live in poverty or on the brink of poverty, right on the brink. Forty-three percent of African-American school-aged children live in poverty. Thirty-four percent of Hispanic school-aged children live in poverty.
This is unacceptable in the United States. This is unacceptable.
As your president, I will go into the poorest communities and work on a national plan for revitalization. Thats what I do. Thats what I do. Under budget and ahead of schedule. Remember last week, I opened a hotel under budget and ahead of schedule. That was one of eight stops and I wanted to see, cause I help my kids Ivanka, Don, Eric, they were in charge of the hotel, and I wanted to -- she sounded "Yehey!", theyre good -- theyre good kids I will say that, but I wanted to be there for the ribbon cutting and Hillary said "He took time off from the campaign big -- I was effort two seconds." In the meantime, I made eight stops, stopped in Washington we cut the ribbon.
It was so beautiful. It was great and I said "Under budget" and I wanted to do it for that reason, to really -- to congratulate my kids. Its going to be one of the great hotels, a lot of jobs, a lot of everything. Everythings good. But one of the great hotels the country will be very proud of it, OK? But what I really wanted to say is, we built it under budget and ahead of schedule, isnt that nice?
What we do things in the country, highways, road ways, we dont do too many of them anymore. We dont build bridges anymore right? We dont build tunnels anymore. But when we do things, its always double, triple, quadruple the cost. It takes five times longer to build it than you thought.
So under budget and ahead of schedule, we will replace decades of failure with generations of success. We will bring prosperity to our poorest communities, safety to our most dangerous neighborhoods and hope to those places which have not know hope in a very, very long time. New Mexico, and you love New Mexico, right?
Man, thats a lot of people! Well get a bigger hanger next time. I have a lot of friends that live in New Mexico, its an amazing place. New Mexico has lost nearly, heres the bad news, 40% of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, a deal strongly supported by crooked Hillary.
Americas lost 70,000 factories, think of the worth that is, seven -- I always say its a typo, 70,000 factories since -- What, are they having an alarm over there? What happened? Is that an alarm going on? Theres so many people in here. Thats some alarm. Thats all right. Let it run the whole night why dont you, you know?
Theyll figure out how to turn it off. America, but think of this, Americas lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization. Seventy thousand factories, another Hilary backdeal. We are living through the greatest jobs left in the history of the world.
They are taking our jobs. They think were babies. Were not gonna allow that to happen anymore. Next, Hillary and her daughters want the TransPacific Partnership, which will destroy countless more jobs in New Mexico. Its another dea -- by the way, the good news is, it will never be as bad as NAFTA. Nothing can be. NAFTAs the worst deal ever signed trade deal, ever signed by any country at any time but TPP is going to be a disaster, believe me. Overly complex, too many countries.
We want to make deals one, two, three straight lines, right? And if the country doesnt behave properly, we send them notice of termination and then they call us back and they give us an even better deal.
You have to see this, you have to see this TransPacific, its all over the place. They dont know what theyre doing. Almost 6,000 pages and I guarantee you, like Obamacare, our people dont even read the pages. A Trump administration will stop the TransPacific Partnership, renegotiate NAFTA and were going to stand up to China and Chinas currency manipulation, which is killing us. And I have very good relations with China.
Theres nothing wrong, Chinas doing the right thing. The only thing wrong is that our politicians allowed them to get away with it, believe me. Were going to start making things in America again.
We are going to start, very importantly, making things in New Mexico again. As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower tax on American businesses from 35% to 15% percent. That means more companies opening up their doors in New Mexico. You will be, this place will be hot as a pistol, I promise you that.
Be hot as a pistol. Were going to massively cut taxes for the middle class. The middle-class family in New Mexico with two children with get approximately a 35% tax cut. Hillary Clinton on the other hand is going to raise your taxes by almost 50%. And think of this, with the highest taxed nation in the world and she wants to rai -- you, thats a really good idea, raise taxes, go ahead.
Were to lower your taxes big. We will also unleash your vast energy resources in New Mexico to bring jobs well and higher wages the estate. We will become a rich nation again and New Mexico will become a very, very rich state, thats OK. But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. Violent crime increased 53% in Albuquerque last year.
Did you know that, 53%. Whats going on out there? Whats happening? Fifty-three percent, thats a lot. Why? Why? Ill tell you a big portion of it but honestly without having studied it greatly, I know the 53% number, you know the number, drugs pouring into New Mexico. So were gonna stop that.
Dont worry well gonna build the wall. Dont worry about it were gonna build the wall. Were gonna build the wall. And Mexicos gonna pay for the wall that and theyll be happy to do it. We have to stop the drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth and poisoning everybody else. Im going to support our local and federal law enforcement officials in order to reduce violent crime in New Mexico.
Thats a big increase, 53%. Thats about as big as Ive heard. Thats a big increase. Every family in New Mexico has the right to live in safety and in peace. You have that right. But Hillary Clinton also wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees coming in to our country.
Hillarys refugee plan means generation of terrorism, extremism and radicalism spreading into your schools and into your communities. When we win, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program. We have no choice. And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. We have no choice. A Trump Administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
As I said, we will build the wall Mexico will pay for the wall. Theyll be very happy to do it. Mexicos making a fortune off the United States. We have tremendous trade deficits with Mexico. Theyll be very happy to pay for the wall, trust me. Just rely, rely on me.
Do you think I can do it folks? Rely on me, rely on me. And were gonna have a great relationship with Mexico by the way, but its gonna be a fair relationship. You know, right now, we have a one lane highway going into Mexico. Theyve got our jobs, theyve got our factories, theyve got our money, theyve got everything.
You know, we have drugs and unemployment. Weve received the first ever endorsement from ICE and from the Border Patrol officers. Big endorsement. Theyve never endorsed a presidential candidate before and these are great people that want to do their jobs. You know, Itd be much easier working for Obama or working for crooked Hillary because frankly, when youre working for Hillary, she just wants to let people to just pour in.
You could have 650 million people pour in and we do nothing about. Think of it. Thats what could happen. You triple the size of our country in one week. Once you lose control of your borders you have no country, folks. You just have to, and we want people to come into our country. Just say it, "I want people to come in and some should come in through merit, the merit system theres nothing wrong but were gonna have big beautiful doors in the wall and were gonna have people come into our country but theyre going to come in legally, right?
Legally. We want them to come in. We need people to come in. Hillarys pledged open borders.
The Immigration Office warned that Hillarys plan is quote "The most radical immigration proposal ever put forward." because its just open. The Immigration Office also warned that Hillarys radical plan will result in the loss, think of this, a thousands of innocent American livers and an uncontrollable flood of illegal immigrants across the border taking jobs and crime would be rampant.
As we speak, we are in the middle of an unprecedented crisis on our southern border. The agents on the ground say its the worst theyve ever seen and that the American people are not being told the truth about whats happening. But you people know the truth because youre here.
People, drugs, and cartels are pouring across the border. This crisis is putting enormous stress on your schools, your hospitals, your jobs, and your wages. You know that. Do you know that? I mean everybody knows it that. Low income Hispanic Americans are often those hurt the most by illegal immigration, which people are really now seeing.
And were doing so great with the Latino vote, with the Hispanic vote, we are doing. You know, it just came out, there was a story I was just given the Bay Pigs Association, Cuban just gave me in Miami the award, the great award, an unbelievable award, just two days ago. And they just did a big story in Florida because were doing unbelievable.
The lines are four blocks long. Theyve never seen anything like it and -- and everyones talking about you know, "Trump is getting the Hispanic vote, whats going on?" I knew that. I knew that. I know it. Because people that are here, Latinos, Hispanics, people that are here, you want you want your house, you want your job, you want all of these things and you want security and safety.
I mean I understand that. But the Cubans gave me their most coveted award and it was a great honor I will tell you that and we are doing fantastically. I will protect jobs for Hispanics and for the Hispanic-American community in New Mexico. When I become the president, we will keep the cartels and the gang members out of New Mexico.
Were sending them back.
And we will protect the jobs and security of every worker in your state. Were here to protect. Were here to bring jobs since you have plenty of choice and lots of money. We will also repeal Obama-Clinton defense sequester, rebuild our badly depleted military and take care of our incredible veterans. How many veterans are here right now?
How many veterans? A lot of veterans. Our veterans have not been treated right. You know that we have 22 suicides a day among the veteran community? Twenty-two said -- we love you too, I dont know that guy sounds pretty rough. He loves me, he sounds very rough but I still love him. Hes obviously a -- are you a veteran, yes?
Right? Yes, hes a veteran. Were gonna take care of our veterans.
They havent been taken care of but think of it, 22 suicides a day. You know, there are two numbers that stick out. Twenty-two suicides a day you would think is not something that is even thinkable, right? And the other is when you have 70,000 factories that have left our country and go. Those two numbers I thought that was a typo and the 22 suicides a day I had it checked.
I had to say, "is that possible?" But the waits are so long to see a doctor, sometimes two weeks but you wait four or five six days to see a doctor and a little prescription a little a little procedure could save your life and these are our veterans. These are the greatest people in our country.
Were gonna take care of our veterans for the first time because they have not been taken care of. There was a story recently, a couple of weeks ago about a highly decorated veteran who live out of a dumpster in a certain area of our country. Lived out of a dumpster - thats not gonna be happening anymore folks.
We will rebuild our badly depleted air force, the smallest and oldest that has ever been. That means massive new investments to get to hear a place called Kirtland huh? Kirtland. Kirtland Air Force Base right here in New Mexico. A lot of investment going there. Its a great base too, by the way. We also need a new foreign policy that puts America first.
Hillary brought disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya, and every place that she touches. She empowered Iran and she unleashed ISIS by leaving that big vacuum. And you know, I tell the story of Mosul. I tell the story of Mo -- you know we had Mosul until Obama and Hillary got out and then they took Mosul back. But we had -- now we are fighting again.
But I tell the story, why cant we use the element of surprise for, for four months weve all been hearing, "We will be attacking Mosul." in four months. I say "Why are you doing this? Why are you saying? Why do you have to talk?
Then I hear three months, were gonna attack in three months, two months, one month then a couple of weeks I heard in one week, in one week we are going into Mosul and then I said to myself, "Why are they doing this? Why dont they use the element of surprise? General MacArthur, General George Patton, bomb.
You know what their doing right? Theyre spitting in their grave, they cant even believe it, very tough. And you know one of the reasons they wanted Mosul, the ISIS leaders -- and we do have to take ISIS out you know, thats just got to take them. We want peace thru strength. We dont want to be in wars but these savages are chopping off heads, drowning people in steel cages, burying people in the sand.
We havent had -- this is medieval times. This is medieval times and then we cant do waterboarding its far too tough you know. Were fighting on a different level. See, we are fighting on a different level folks and we have to be tough and we have to be smart and we have to be in some cases pretty vicious to be honest with you, pretty vicious.
But we have to take them out and then we have to get back to building our country because our country weve spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, $6 trillion dollars. And we could have rebuilt our country twice.
Six trillion dollars. And you know what, the Middle East is in far worse shape than from our standpoint. If our presidents would have gone away, let Obama play golf everyday, I wont mention other names, but if our presidents would have just gone away, we would have been a hell of a lot better than we are right now.
Let them go to the beach. They could have gone to the beach. And ah, Hillary, she has such a bad relationship with so many countries, Putin cant stand her, doesnt respect her. Its a nuclear country. I mean, Ive listened to what she says about Syria, will end up in World War III over Syria with her, believe me.
You know theres something nice, I dont know Putin, but wouldnt it be nice if we could get along actually with other country. Wouldnt that be nice? Be smart. They want to get ISIS, we want to get ISIS, we put everything together. We knocked the hell out of ISIS. Wouldnt that be nice? Wouldnt that be smart?
Imagine if some of that money had been spent building new schools, roads, bridges in New Mexico and the United States. Wouldnt that be nice? Remember folks, $6 trillion and we are in much, much worse shape than we were 15 years ago. We should have never gone in to Iraq. But we should never have gotten out the way Obama took us out.
Never. It left the vacuum and from that vacuum Isis formed.
Hillary was there and now you listen to her, "We will stop Isis." Shes got zero chance. Isiss biggest dream is that Hillary Clinton, crooked Hillary becomes president of the United States. They dream because look, they started, remember the junior varsity, right? Obama said, the ju -- the junior varsity, some junior varsity, so they started as a very small little seedling and they grew out of the vacuum left by with the way we got out, right?
The vacuum in Iraq and they grew. Right now theyre in 32 countries, 32 countries. And shes been there. If she could have stopped them, she would have done it already. Ill stop them, folks. Ill stop them, believe me.
Hillary and her friends have dragged us into the foreign wars that have made us less safe and foreign wars that we never win, that have made us less safe, theyve left our borders wide open at home and theyve shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries all over the world including Mexico. To all Americans, I say it is time now, it is time for new leadership and smart leadership.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody, so nice. I love this young beautiful children upfront "President Trump, President Trump!" They love the country already. Everybodys gonna love the country and folks were divided nation Were totally divided nation. Were gonna come together.
Were gonna have love. Were gonna have love. Its gonna be a much more unified, hopefully a totally unified country. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump Administration. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. Hillarys gonna raise taxes. Were going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation.
Theyre a disaster. Well cancel every illegal Obama executive order. We will provide school choice for New Mexicos children and put an end to common course so we bring education local. We are going to rebuild our military and we are going to take great care of our great veterans.
We will support the men and women of law enforcement. And save the second Amendment which is totally under siege. The National Rifle Association endorsed me, the earliest endorsement theyve ever made for presidential candidate and I have to tell you, I have to tell you Wayne and Chris and all of those folks, they are great Americans.
They love this country, that I can tell you. NRA, so to have their endorsement is very important but believe me, your Second Amendment is under siege. Its under siege, its under siege. And with me there will be no under siege I promise you that. And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Hillary Clinton wants us to think small, wants us to believe things cant change and wants our lives to revolve on not so true, she wants our lives to revolve around Washington D.C. I am asking you to dream big. Remember the old days, dream big. Our country used to dream big, to push for bold change and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love for this country.
And its true, even these really dishonest media people, the worlds most dishonest people. Dont worry, dont worry, you wont be in television. They never show, they never show the crowd. You know that, youve been hearing me said "They never ever want to show this massive crowds."
These are among the most dishonest people on earth. They never want to show the crowds. I go home, I say, "Did they show the crowds?" No, they showed my face. Ill tell you though, when they hear the roar, it sounds like an Ohio state football game, right? Amazing. Amazing. Very dishonest, they are very dishonest people.
The other night I have 17,000 people at an event and one of the anchors was saying "Were here at the Donald Trump rally. Hes got a few thousand people." A few thousand is not, you know what, a few thousand people is not 17,000 people. A few thousand people to me is 3,000 people OK? But there is a level of dishonesty that I would never believe is possible.
But were gonna win. Were gonna win. Ive led a great life. Now I want to give back to the country and this country has been so good to me. I love this country. You know I was on the other side. I was on the other side for a long time. But I love this country and I saw what was happening and we were going in the wrong direction.
And I went from like the ultimate insider to probably the ultimate outsider, wouldnt you say? Ive spent over a hundred million dollars of my money on doing this and a lot of people they say, the greatest political phenomenon theyve ever seen. They say it. But you know what, and somebody, one of them actually said to me it doesnt matter, listen to this one.
It doesnt matter if you win or lose.
What youve done has created something that has never happened in this country before. Let me tell you right now, if we lose the November 8th, I have wasted tremendous time, energy, and money, believe me. Believe me it will be a total waste of time and energy. But I saw what was happening and Im with you.
Ive spent a career finding the untapped potential in projects and people all over the world. Everywhere I look in this country, all I see is untapped potential waiting to be set free. Im tired of politicians telling Americans to defer their dreams to another day when they really mean, defer their dreams to another decade, you know that.
America is tired of waiting. The moment is now. Were never going to have another chance. Forget four years from now. Its not gonna happen. This is almost like you could say a miracle thats taking place. Knock on wood. Its almost like a miracle thats taking place. Were leading in the polls, were leading in the States.
This is special, you have to get out every last vote because you know the odds are stacked against us, you do know that. Get out and vote! Well gonna win it so big this will be Brexit times ten. So we have to go and vote and we have to stop believing in failed politicians and start believing in each other and really believe in our country once again.
Were going to do it. There is no challenge too great, no dream outside of our reach. There is no dream, folks, outside of our reach. Dont let anyone tell you it cant be done The future lies with the dreamers, not cynics and not the critics. Hillarys been there for 30 years and shes accomplished nothing.
Shes just made things worse. She will never get the job done. Hillary Clinton is the candidate of yesterday. We, not me, we are the candidate of the future. Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and all walks of life. We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and first-time voters of which there are many.
You know, in the state of Texas, they were trying to say cause the polls are crooked. Everythings crooked. Man, so rigged system, folks, but they were saying we were very close to Texas and a man got up today from Texas. He said "I want to tell you something. We have the biggest turnout in the history of Texas.
Were up 50% more than we ever were and those votes are all going to Trump. Ive been watching you guys talking about how its close in Texas. Its a blowout in Texas" This guy was great. The blowout. And he said "People are coming to vote, who never voted before but they love our country and people are coming to vote who havent voted in 20 years because they are excited.
And they walk in, these are non-voters and they walk in with Trump shirts and Trump buttons and Trump hats. They didnt vote before and now they have all the stuff because they are no energized. Theyre energized. These are great Americans. These are also great Americans. We are also asking for the vote of every American who believes truth and justice.
Not money and power should rule the day. We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests. We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better future.
With your vote, we are just nine days, can you believe it? I started this journey a year and a half ago, June 16th. Remember coming down the escalator with Melania and it seemed such a long time and now looking back it seems so close and we started off with 17 people, all talented, governors, senators, Dr. Ben Carson, who was a great guy and who endorsed us, Ben endorser, hes a great guy I will tell you that.
But all talented people and then one by one by one by one and I listen to the pundits and they say "Well, Donald Trump is not experienced." I said, "Well, you know, thats OK." But one by one and they did a report one time, they were comparing experience.
I had four months experience and they had 233 years, in other words when you added it up. And here we are, we only have crooked Hillary to beat, we gotta beat her. Were gotta beat her. You wanna know the truth? You wanna know the truth? I think the least of her problems right now is this race, OK? We are just nine days away from the change youve all been waiting for.
Youve all been waiting for this change your entire life. Get out and vote! Youre gonna look back at this evening and youll gonna say this was a very important part of your life.
More importantly, youll gonna look back at that vote when you sent that vote and youll gonna look back at that ballot, that vote and youre gonna say its the single greatest vote youve ever cast because thats when our country started winning again. And youre gonna be proud of your country again and hopefully youre gonna be proud of your president.
