Donald Trump|Interview: Laura Ingraham Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News in France|June 6, 2019
Well first of all, the meeting with the Queen was incredible, I think I can say I really got to know her because I sat with her many times and we had automatic chemistry, you understand that feeling, its a good feeling but shes a spectacular woman. And the people I met, I met so many veterans I wish I could have wrapped people that have seen it, theyve seen days like nobody else and they are just really incredible people.
Well this is weather like they dont normally have, you know, this is supposed to be today a storm and its a little like the invasion itself, the weather was a big factor and they delayed it a day and it worked out OK and you look at the weather we have, we have beautiful weather. And its been this way wherever Ive been and I mean, weve been out now for three and a half days and looks like, Im saying it isnt always like this, its pretty beautiful but it can be pretty rough.
That there was never a more important battle, there was never a more important event than the events 75 years ago today, think of that, these were incredible brave people who were just being blown up and you have the graves all over. I mean these were people that knew they were going to die, it was horrendous, the bravery, the valor, were giving out medals today.
You know were giving our medals to certain people, certain families, this was one of the true, in terms of war, in terms of probably you could also say in terms of peace because this lead to something very special. This was a very, very horrific day but it was also a very special day and its an honor to be here.
Well those are the people that fail so badly and I havent really gone to them, I know them, Ive read them, Ive seen what the result is and the result was terrible. NATO was going down and if you look at the money coming into NATO for the last 15 years its like an escalator down and now its like a rocket ship up. Secretary Stoltenberg has been maybe Trumps biggest fan to be honest with you, he goes around -- he made a speech the other day, he said without Donald Trump maybe there would be no NATO.
Weve gotten over $100 billion from other countries where theyre starting to pay because it got to a point where we were paying so much, I think we were really paying close to a 100 percent of NATO, so we were paying to protect all of these European nations and its just not fair and I told them that, I told the countries, the heads of the countries, I said, its not fair, the United States possibly doesnt even benefit.
You know you could make the case and certainly in this age were not benefiting, certainly not like them. And they paid over $100 billion more towards their defense, thats money that we...
Yes, she was so nice but theyre all saying it and theyre stepping up. I would say Germany has not stepped up much, Germanys paying one percent, they should be paying much more than that. Well think of it, one percent, so we protect Germany and then Germany takes advantage of us on trade. I was with Angela Merkel yesterday, who I like a lot, I have really good -- you know a lot of people think we dont have a good relationship, we do and she even smiles when I say look, you have to pay and she sorta laughs because for years they got away with this and its unfair and theyre not getting away with it anymore.
What did she say?
She has to say what she has to say, I mean you know she took a pretty tough election a couple of days ago but I like her, I get along with but I said you have to pay and most of the nations are now either current or very close to current and thats a tremendous -- its over a $100 billion in a very short period of time.
When youre the piggy bank that everybody steals and robs from and they deceive you and they -- like theyve been doing for 25 years, tariffs are a beautiful thing. Its a beautiful word if you know how to use them properly. Republicans should love what Im doing because I view tariffs in two phases. Number one, its great to negotiate with because people dont want to be tariffed for coming into the United States, they dont want that.
And number two, frankly theyre going to make fortune because all the companies are going to move back into the country.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes, because its their fault also because theyre letting millions of people walk up through their country and they shouldnt let anybody walk up through their country. I mean frankly we shouldnt even have to have border patrol. Border patrols doing incredibly, you know they apprehended over 100,000 people last...
Well and what theyre doing theyre taking, and by the way thats not even close to our record because if you go back 13 -- 14 years ago it was crazy numbers but I dont want this. I want people to come in legally, we want the people that we want and I want a merit based system, but we shouldnt have anybody, they shouldnt be able to walk through Mexico.
And now Ive told Mexico, if you dont stop this onslaught, this invasion, people get angry when I use the word invasion, people like Nancy Pelosi that honestly they dont know what the hell theyre talking about. I watched her -- she was saying we have to protect Mexico, we have to take care of Mexico, look, Im dealing with Mexico right now.
They send in $500 billion worth of drugs, they kill 100,000 people, they ruin a million families every year if you look at that, thats really an invasion without the guns.
Im not worried about it because they need us, we dont need them, they need us. They stole 32 percent of our car business with NAFTA, the stupidest deal, one of the truly stupid deals of our time, they stole 32,000 -- they have 32 percent of our car business.
Uh...
How do you define ally?
OK fine and yet they send in $500 billion worth of drugs, we will never do that kind of trade. They send in drugs, illegal drugs, $500 billion, 100,000 people are killed, dead every year from what comes through our southern border, they shouldnt be allowing people to come through their country from Central, from Honduras and Guatemala, El Salvador...
Excuse me, Laura. They walk right through our country.
I think shes a disgrace. I actually dont think shes a talented person, Ive tried to be nice to her because I would have liked to have gotten some deals done. Shes incapable of doing deals, shes a nasty, vindictive, horrible person, the Mueller report came out, it was a disaster for them. They thought their good friend Bobby Mueller was going to give them a great report and he came out with a report with 13 horrible, angry Democrats who are totally biased against me. A couple of them worked for Hillary Clinton, they then added five more, also Democrats, with all of that two and a half years think of it, from before I even got elected theyve been going after me and they have nothing.
Let me tell you, he made such a fool out of himself the last time she -- because what people dont report is the letter he had to do to straighten out his testimony because his testimony was wrong but Nancy Pelosi, I call her nervous Nancy, Nancy Pelosi doesnt talk about it. Nancy Pelosis a disaster, OK, shes a disaster and let her do what she wants, you know what?
I think theyre in big trouble because when you look at the kind of crimes that were committed and I dont need any more evidence and I guess from what Im hearing theres a lot of evidence coming in. But you look, and then ask Nancy, why is her district a drug needles all over the place. Its the most disgusting thing what shes allowed to happen to her district.
With needles, with drug addicts, with people living in the middle streets, with people living on the sidewalk, you cant go -- she ought to focus on that because shes a disaster and she made a statement, it was a horrible, nasty...
...icious statement while Im overseas, now if I made any statement about anybody it would be like a big head, why would he do that when hes overseas. She didnt want to -- she is a terrible person and Ill tell you her name, its nervous Nancy because shes a nervous wreck.
He just doesnt get it, he doesnt get it.
Well he wants him, he wants him, hey look, we’re taking in tens of billions of dollars, we had a 3.2 GDP first quarter, it’s always one percent, less than one percent, it’s always the worst quarter, we’re at 3.2, a point and a half above schedule. And you know why? Because so much money’s coming in from China, we’ve never took in any money from China and let me tell you a little secret, that’s all a little tiny piece of it because the big one is yet to come.
We have $325 billion that I haven’t even taxed yet and they’ve already spent all of their weapons, they’ve done everything they can. I’ll tell you the greatest people, the farmers, our patriot farmers and now they’re really -- they’re going to benefit like -- and you know remember this about the farmers, for 15 years before I got here everything was coming down, so this didn’t happen.
The farmers are going to be one of the biggest beneficiaries but these are patriots, these are people that say the President is right and if I’m going through a little short term problem it doesn’t matter, the President is right. Listen to those incredible people back there, these people are so amazing and what they don’t realize is that I’m holding them up because of this interview, but that’s because it’s you.
By the way congratulations on your ratings.
You know I think we’re going to have a good relationship with Russia, I think it’s hurt by the phony witch hunt, you know, I could have a good relationship with Russia, again we have what everyone wants. I’ve built an economy that’s incredible, Europe $14 trillion in value, look at what’s going on with the stock markets and this is despite a Federal Reserve that frankly should have had lower interest rates and everything else.
Now there’s a safety net that’s good and more conservative but if we didn’t have all these interest rates, you know, who thought he was going to raise interest rates but if we didn’t have that we’d be at 5.2 and the stock market would be up 10,000 points more. But now we have a very conservative approach and we’re still, we’ve created trillions of dollars in value and by the way China has lost trillions of dollars in value.
If somebody else, let’s say the opponent, who shouldn’t even be allowed to run, you know she happens to be a crooked person, so her name is very appropriate but if she ever won our, I would say China right now would be far ahead of the United States, just think of it. China would have been -- we are now so far ahead of China, it’s not even a contest.
So, I think success should unite the country but I will tell you the more successful we’ve come the more angry people like Nancy Pelosi, who don’t have what it takes, if they don’t know what’s going on they get angry. They should -- an example is Mexico, I said we’re going to put tariffs on because we want you to help us because they won’t pass any legislation in Congress and I have Senators and others and Pelosi coming out saying how horrible.
What they’re doing is they’re hurting a deal, they should be saying we’re with the President, we’ll do whatever he wants to do and Mexico would fold like an umbrella. Now, I have these people and I’m saying there’s some republicans too, I think they should be ashamed of themselves but we have Pelosi, we have crying Chuck Schumer who’s a disaster by the way, he’s a total political, you know, jerk but we have Schumer, we have all these people, they come out and they talk about tariffs so bad so they can killing– they hurt my negotiation because I go into the room with the Mexicans, I’m asking them for everything and by the way if they don’t do it I’m putting the tariffs on, we’re going to make a fortune.
One thing with the tariffs, when those tariffs go on companies are going to start moving back, once they know they’re going to stay on, companies are going to move back to the United States. They took 32 percent of our car industry, those all, every single one of those plants will move back into the United States.
Yes, I’ll definitely get a deal with China, I mean they want to make a deal now. I will say I’d want to get a deal but what they did was very bad. We had a deal and they tried to re-negotiate, they can’t do that.
Peace, really peace and we built up our military, we built up our wealth, we’ve built up everything, our country is in such great shape right now, Iran is in a much different position then they were two and a half years ago. Two and a half years ago, Iran was a disaster for us, now they’re, they’ve got problems, let’s put it that way, they’re not the same country, North Korea, no nuclear tests, I have a good rela -- and we’ll see what happens, we’re going to see what happens.
China wants to make a deal, everybody wants to make a deal, we’re the best, we’re the strongest, there’s nobody even close.
I did not but I had a great relationship, we had a really great time. There are those that say they have never seen the Queen have a better time, a more animated time. We had a period where we were talking solid straight, I didn’t even know who the other people at the table were, I never spoke to them, we just had a great time.
Yes I am, she’s a spectacular woman, an incredible woman.
