Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Grand Rapids, Michigan|March 28, 2019
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much, Grand Rapids. Its great to be back. Right here in Americas heartland. You know that, right? With the hard-working patriots from the great state of Michigan. By the way we are bringing a lot of those car companies back. Remember I told you they are coming back?
They are pouring back in. They are coming back. They are coming back fast. This has been an incredible couple of weeks for America. The economy is roaring. The ISIS caliphate is defeated 100 percent. And after three years of lies and smears and slander the Russia hoax is finally dead. The collusion delusion is over.
The Special Counsel completed its report and found no collusion and no obstruction. I could have told you that two and a half years ago very easily. Total exoneration. Complete vindication. You know, its interesting Robert Mueller was a God to the Democrats, was a God to them until he said there was no collusion.
They dont like him so much right now. The crazy attempt by the Democrat party and the fake news media right back there -- And the deep state to overturn the results of the 2016 election have failed, the greatest election that weve had in a long time may be right from the beginning.  This was nothing more than a sinister effort to undermine our historic election victory and to sabotage the will of the American people.
This is the one we want. We want ourselves. We want us and thats what we got. We came from all over to vote. Theyve never taken it away from us, never. Never. Our movement took on the political establishment, the corrupt media and its never been more corrupt than it is today. And many special interests, thats why they tried to do everything possible to take us out but we are very tough to take out arent we? Very, very, very.
The Russia witch hunt was a plan by those who lost the election to try and eat illegally regain power by framing innocent Americans, many of them. They suffered with an elaborate hoax. They wanted to destroy a movement like our country has never seen before. Thats true. Never seen before. And believe me, if these people thought that that wasnt true, they would be writing it. Theyve never seen anything like it. Nobody has in this countrys history and in most countries histories there has never been anything like what we did in 2016 on November 8. We defeated a very corrupt establishment and we kept our promise to the American people and its driving them crazy.
Today our movement and our country are thriving. Their fraud has been exposed and the credibility of those who pushed this hoax is forever broken and theyve now got big problems. And the harm done to our country -- think of what theyve done. Think of the time wasted and yet despite this terrible cloud, this phony, corrupt, disgusting cloud we have done more together in the first two years than any administration in the history of our country.
And this group of major losers did not just ruthlessly attack me, my family, and everyone who questioned their lies, they tried to divide our country, to poison the national debate, and to tear up the fabric of our great democracy, the greatest anywhere in the world. They did it all because they refuse to accept the results of one of the greatest Presidential elections, probably number one in our history.
Many, many people were badly hurt by this scam. But more importantly our country was hurt. Our country was hurt and theyre on artificial respirators right now.  They are getting mouth to mouth resuscitation. Little pencil-neck Adam Schiff. Hes got the smallest, thinnest neck Ive ever seen.  He is not a long ball hitter but I saw him today well, we dont really know.
There could still have been some Russia collusion. Sick. Sick. These are sick people and there has to be accountability because its all lies and they know its lies. They know it. They know it. Jerry Nadler, Ive been fighting him for many years. He was the Congressman from Manhattan. I built great things in Manhattan.
I had to beat him many, many times. Now I come here, I have to beat him again. Can you believe? I want every record in the history of the Trump organization. Every single sheet of paper. And what do you have to justify? Nothing. It doesnt matter. We will find something somewhere along the line. A mistake must have been made.
These people are sick. Sick. Every single deal. Every single paper. All of the Democrat politicians, the media bosses bad people. The crooked journalist, the totally dishonest TV pundits and by the way they know its not true. They just got great readings. By the way their ratings dropped through the floor last night.
Did you see that? And our friends Tucker, Sean, Laura through the roof last night. And all of the current and former officials who paid for, promoted, and perpetuated the single greatest hoax in the history of politics in our country they have to be -- Im sorry. They have to be accountable. Just think of. A fake, dirty dossier millions and millions of dollars paid for it. By who?
Crooked Hillary Clinton, the DNC and the Democrat party. Think of it. This is what they used. But they failed. They failed in one way. Can you believe it? Maybe I got lucky. Maybe I got lucky because the fake news they wouldnt put it on. Even they didnt be leave it. Think of it, they spent millions of dollars and the deal was they get it published or printed all of these horrible lies, all now totally exposed as fake.
They were going to get it printed just before the election and they couldnt get any of the media to print it. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. You never know. You never know. You lose a few vote and that could be the difference but they wouldnt print it so I will tell you on that score I give the media a lot of credit.
It came out after the election and everybody had a big, fat yawn.  And I heard about Russia. Id be running, Id be hearing -- theyd say something about Russia. Id say Russia, what does that have to do -- ? This went on. Little -- and then all of the sudden I hear were you involved with Russia?
I say Russia? What the hell does Russia have to do with my campaign? Its true. Russia. Russia. You know I go up to Wisconsin where she didnt go, she was told you know many, many years, decades, since a Republican one although Bill Clinton said he was in Wisconsin and youd better get up there, there are a lot of signs up saying Trump Pence, a lot of signs.
A lot of those signs. Youd better get up there darling. And they said no, no, no. Dont worry about Wisconsin because you know Wisconsin the pollsters say were doing great. They dont come to a place called Michigan. Have you ever heard of Michigan? Michigan. And Bill Clinton said you know I was in Michigan, youd better get to Michigan.
Its not looking good. They have so many of those damn signs. Every place I look they have the sign on somebodys lawn. Youd better get up to -- know, Michigan hasnt been lost in decades by the Dems. By the Dems. Hasnt been lost. And if you remember this was my last stop. This was it. And Ill never forget this was a spur of the moment because I heard crooked Hillary and Bill, Barack Obama and Michelle -- they were all headed here, right, at the last moment.
They had a tiny, little crowd and I had Id like to say more but I cant have more than this because every seat is gone and outside you have 25,000 people. And I remember leaving and I said so shes got 500 people and I had 32,000 people including the people outside. I will tell you we have more tonight because outside we have even more than we did then.
And I started speaking at 1 oclock in the morning so its now election day. In fact I actually said am I allowed to do this? Its 1 oclock in the morning. I had made six speeches and when I heard she was coming I said you know what, what the hell.  So it was spur of the moment, last second. We called and we had 32,000 people including all of the people outside.
She had . I said so let me explain. Let me ask. So shes here at prime time 730, Im here at one in the morning. She has 500 or 600 people, I have 32,000. Can you explain why am I going to lose Michigan? Why? Why am I going to lose Michigan? Why am I going to lose the great state? I was asking my people.
I get home at 4 oclock in the morning and I told our great First Lady, soon to be first lady -- and shes doing a great job. They love her. I said you know I have this incredible crowd and I didnt start speaking until 1 oclock in the morning. I said how the hell could I lose Michigan and guess what we didnt lose Michigan.
And you know what, we didnt lose Wisconsin either. And the fact is we won a lot of places that night. We won Pennsylvania. We won South Carolina. We won North Carolina. We won Florida. We ran the East Coast. We won Iowa, youd better believe Iowa. We love Iowa. We won. We won a lot. We won a lot. Well, we 306 to 223. Would you say thats good?
I say thats good. Because of here. Remember they said there is no way -- . The day of the election Im saying you know this is pretty lousy. Its all fake news. You know they are trying to put it in your head. They go there is no way to 270. In other words I needed 270 to win. There is no way for Donald Trump, I wasnt President.
Then, I was a little short of President There is no way on CNN for Donald Trump, remember the red board? It was so red; the red was killing -- they were dying. There is no way for 270 for Donald Trump. It will be a very short evening for Donald Trump there just is no way and they were right. We didnt get 270. We got 306. But in this country --  But in this country, we cannot criminalize political differences, political differences.
We do not abuse the law enforcement and intelligence power to target our political opponents when they spy on me. Whoever heard of this? They spied on me. They spied on our campaign. Who would think thats possible? The single greatest political hoax in the history of our country and guess what? We won. Its a beautiful thing.
Its a beautiful thing. We love to win. They tried to take something great away from people that came from all over. I always say, they came from the valleys, they came from the mountains, they came out of the damn rivers. I dont know what you were doing in the river but they came from the cities. They came and they came and they didnt even know these people existed.
They are hard-working. They are successful, they are the smartest people, they are the toughest people, they are the most loyal people. They are. They are the smartest. Remember this about yourself. You know I always hear the easily, the release. Well, I always said they said it. I said it here my last night.
I always say they say the easily. They are the elite, I am not. Well, I have a better education than them, Im smarter than them. I went to the best schools, they didnt. Much more beautiful house, much more beautiful apartment, much more beautiful everything. And Im President and they are not, right? And then they say the elite, the elite.
They are not elite, you are the elite. We are the elite. I get a kick. I hear so and so the elite. Then you see this guy, like this little schlepper, this is elite? Im not elite. This is elite. We are the elite. You are smarter. You are sharper. You are more loyal. You are a hell of a lot tougher. A hell of a lot tougher.
So we cant have two different standards of justice in our country. One where the left wing radical establishment can get away with anything they want. But you know, I have to tell you. I said it last night, we have some great, great friends in the media too. You look at Rush and Sean -- And Laura and Steve and Ainsley and Tucker and Jeanine.
Jeanine is back, going to be back on Saturday night. Jeanine, right? And even Greg likes me now. Greg. He started a little slow but he likes Trump. But we have a lot of great support. We really do. We have a lot of great support. Far more than you think but where we really have the support are the voters that pull that handle or whatever the hell they are pulling they are pulling it for us. So the Russia hoax proves more than ever that we need to finish exactly what we came here to do. Drain the swamp.
The Democrats have to now decide whether they will continue defrauding the public with ridiculous bullshit -- Partisan investigations or whether they will apologize to the American people and join us to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, bring down the cost of healthcare and prescription drugs which we are doing incredibly, help us fix our broken trade deals which are coming along really well.
We have our team right now in China. They just arrived. China. China. Weve gone up, theyve gone down but we want them to be healthy. We want them to be happy and healthy. China. And by the way we are building the wall as us -- , we are building that wall. Building -- We are building that wall.  We had to go down a little bit of a different path but thats okay.
National emergency it is. And if you look at the border and you look at the hundreds of thousands of people that are invading or at least trying to invade our country you would know that we needed and we are building it. And we are building it a lot faster than anybody would -- and better, and better. Its better.
Its faster and its less expensive. And its also much more beautiful. And we are building it very rapidly. Its moving along and we renovated vast amounts of wall. A lot of it was in bad shape, we renovated it for 25 cents on the dollar. Thats okay, too, right? Thats good too. The fake news doesnt want to give us any credit for renovation.
They say even if you rip it down and build a brand-new wall where the wall was, they call that a renovation. Thats not a renovation for me. Thats not. They do anything they can to -- youre right. Shifty Schiff. They do whatever they can do sort of make it look not so good. We are really doing well but we have a problem.
Our country has never been better economically and people are trying to get in and they have to come in legally and they have to come in based on merit. Based on merit. Despite all that we have been forced to endure every day we are working and fighting and winning. Remember that because we are making America great again and we are making a great for all Americans, all Americans.
And its getting to be that time, very important. MAGA country. You heard the other day. How about in Chicago? He said -- He said he was attacked by MAGA country. Did you ever hear that one? I dont know -- . May be the only time Ive ever agreed with the Mayor of Chicago. Thats a terrible situation. Thats an embarrassment not only to Chicago.
That is an embarrassment to our country what took place there. Remember that. But they are looking at it. So we are delighted to be joined this evening by some really incredible people. People that love you. Members of Congress. Bill Huizenga. Where is Bill? Bill Huizenga. Where is he? Where the hell is he? You didnt get a very good location.
You didnt get a good bill. You did not get a great location but we have some news. John Moolenaar. Thank you, John. And Jack Bergman. Thank you, Jack. So heres something good. You ready? In honor of those guys and some of your other representatives and all that we think are fantastic we have some breaking news.
You ready? I dont know. Can you handle it? I dont think you can handle it. I support the Great Lakes. Always have. They are beautiful. They are big, very deep, record deepness, right? And Im going to get in honor of my friends full funding of $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative -- Which you have been trying to get for over 30 years.
So we will get it done. Its time. Its time. Its time. You been trying to get it over 30 years. I would say its time. Right? Also and as you know this one, we have already pretty much locked up, Ill say locked up. You all understand that because we are very close to getting started on the beautiful new Soo Locks that people have wanted to build for a very, very long time.
So we are very close to finishing that one off. And by the way dont let your new Democrat Governor -- or dont let -- Dont let any of our people that find us all of the way now that we have it take credit for it. Okay? Dont let it. Dont let it. You are too smart for that. We are also joined this evening by the Speaker of the Michigan House Lee Chatfield.
Thank you, leave. Thanks, Lee. A person who is doing a fantastic job GOP Chairwoman Laura Cox. And a woman you know very well, she headed up Michigan. They said she was wasting her time, Trump is never going to win Michigan. I said but Im going to bring back your auto business. Remember? And I did, and I did.
And when we won, I said who is that woman? I want to see her and we put her in charge of the RNC, Republican National Committee. Ronna McDaniel. Ronna. And a friend of mine, he used show but hes very rich he shouldnt be shy. Hes one of the biggest builders and real estate people in the world, one of the biggest owners of property.
I shouldnt introduce them because you guys will like him because hes a big owner of property but you own -- you own property, he just owns more of it than you do.  And hes a great guy and hes been with me from the beginning, Stanley Chera. Stanley. Those big beautiful buildings in Manhattan.
You know those big beautiful buildings? He owns it. Stanley, how much did you make this month?  Stanley is a great guy. Been with us all. He loves you and hes been with us from the beginning and weve had a lot of people with us. Weve had people you wouldnt believe weve had a lot of support.
In the last two years weve embarked on an unprecedented economic revival. Unprecedented. America is now the hottest economy anywhere on the planet Earth. Theres nobody close. Since our election when the stock market is up almost 50 percent. You are looking like geniuses with your 401s, right? Your wife or your husband is saying darling, youre such a great investor.
How are we doing? We are up 67 percent. Oh, darling, youre so brilliant.  In your whole life youve been criticized by her or him but all of the sudden they think you are the single greatest investor. Thank you, Donald.  By the way if you want to see those 401s and all of your stocks and all of the things that you own, you want to see them deflate put a good socialist in this position.
Go get yourself a good socialist. Youll see some deflation. Youll see a nice deflate of your stocks and your bonds and your 401. We have created since my election 5.5 million new jobs. Nobody would have believed that was possible. Including 600,000 brand-new -- remember, this couldnt happen. You need a magic wand.
Brand-new manufacturing jobs. Well, how did that happen? We were going to have any new man -- it was going down 600,000 and its going to be increasing by a lot because you have a lot of companies pouring into Michigan and your other great states. A lot. More manufacturing jobs in fact were created in 2018 than in the year in more than 21 years.
Thats not bad. Thats not bad. And thats not even one of our better statistics. Thats actually like at the bottom of the pack. Do you believe me? After years of stagnation wages are rising fast. Do you remember I use to say that people made more money 21 years ago? All of the time and they had one job then they did -- this is two, three years ago, right, than they did working two and three jobs now.
True. But now wages are rising. You have your choice of jobs like I got choice for the veterans, we also got choice for people wanting jobs. So wages are rising substantially for those people. You are doing great but they are also rising most quickly for the lowest income Americans. First time in decades.
And heres a statistic that I love because blue-collar jobs recently grew at the fastest pace in more than 30 years. Whoever thought, right? 30 years. And unemployment has reached the lowest rate in 51 years and soon it will be in the history of our country. 51 years. And to me very important, you remember I use to say what do you have to lose?
What do you have to lose, right? And I got criticized. You shouldnt say that. I said well, its true. Its unfair. So importantly to me African-American unemployment, Hispanic American unemployment, Asian American unemployment and unemployment among disabled Americans have all reached the lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our country.
And you remember in the last election they said Donald Trump will not do well with women. I said really? I said really? No. All of the fake news they said you will not do well with women and maybe they didnt want to say they like me to be honest. That I can understand. And then the election came and they said whatever happened to the fact that he wasnt going to do well with women because we did really well with women.
Right? Right? Remember when I was sitting back a couple of them were trying, remember one of the true killers she was crying not from happiness. But we did great with women. We did great with women and I think we are going to do better with women now because you know what? I produced. Because women filled more than 60 percent of all new jobs created last year.
60 percent. Think about. 60 percent. So that means the men better get moving, folks. You are falling behind. The women are -- they are beating you pretty good men. Get going. The women got 60 percent of all of the new jobs. I mean thats an incredible number. Weve cut the greatest number of regulations in two years in the history of our country.
Not for two years, in the history of our country. Thats one of the things helping us with the jobs. And the United States people dont even believe this, it all happened very recently is now the number one oil and gas producer in the world. Number one. Number one. And by the way Russia is not happy about that but they are fine.
They are doing just fine but they are not happy about that. If Hillary got in you wouldnt have that stat, I can tell you right now. You would be doing wind, windmills and if it doesnt -- if it doesnt blow you can forget about television for that night.  Darling, I want to watch television. Im sorry, the wind isnt blowing.
I know a lot about wind. I know a lot about wind. We passed massive tax cuts, the biggest in the history of our country. And very importantly for those people with small farms and businesses we got rid of the death tax or the estate tax. So now when you leave your farm or small business to your children under the assumption that you like your children, some people dont. Some people say I wouldnt leave it to them under any circumstances.
I cant stand my kids but for those of you that do which I assume is hopefully a vast majority you dont have an estate tax to pay, they dont. So they can take over your farm, they can take over your business, they dont have to mortgage it to the hilt and then the bank comes in five years later takes it away from your kids.
No tax. We eliminated the Obamacare individual mandate penalty. The most unpopular part and we are going to hopefully in the court -- in Texas you heard we won the case, now it has to be appealed and then we will go to the United States Supreme Court. We have a chance of killing Obamacare. We almost did it but somebody unfortunately surprised us with thumbs down but we will do it a different way.
You know what, we will do it a different way but we got rid of the individual mandate where you were forced to pay a lot of money for the privilege of not having to buy bad healthcare. Okay? Not too good. So we are going to get rid of Obamacare. And I said it the other day, the Republican Party will become the party of great healthcare.
Its good. Its important. And we have created new options to help Americans purchase affordable health plans all across state lines. You now have options you would have never had. The Democrats are pushing socialist government-run healthcare that bans private healthcare for 180 million Americans. Now think of it. A lot of you have private plans and they are great.
They are great and you want that. They want to take them away. Thats not going to work. I dont think thats going to work too well. Republicans want you to have an affordable plan thats just right for you and by the way you can use your doctor, remember that? That was a lie. 28 times, 28 times he said that was a lie.
You get cheaper premiums in much lower deductibles. The deductibles and Obamacare are so high on average $7000. You dont get to use it unless a really great tragedy hits and then you dont really want it because you dont give a damn about your deductible, right? You will be in a position where you say who cares about the deductible.
Lets see if I can live. We believe that no one in America should be bankrupted by health care cost and thats whats happening with Obamacare. And remember this because its very important and Im speaking now for the Republican party, we will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions always.
Always. My administration has also begun the bold initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs and in 2018 drug prices saw their first decline in 46 years. First time. First time. And they will be coming down a lot but this is the first time in 46 years that prescription drugs came down. Even Stanley likes that because he needs plenty of them.
And then we passed VA Choice and VA Accountability for our amazing veterans. Our amazing veterans. They have been trying to get VA Choice for over 40 years. They couldnt do it. I got it. We signed it six months ago. Now instead of waiting online for one day, one week, two months people that were okay but not feeling well, wait so long that they become terminally ill.
There was no reason for it. Now they go outside, they see a private doctor, we pay the bill, they get better quickly. And for 46 years VA Accountability you couldnt fire anybody in the VA. We had sadists. They took advantage in so many ways of our great veterans. They were rough, they wouldnt have hit them in prime time by the way, not in prime time.
In prime time they would say okay, I dont want to touch you. Im not going to play. They took advantage of people that are our great heroes that protected us and you couldnt fire them. They stole, they robbed. You couldnt fire them. It didnt matter what you did you couldnt fire them. Called accountability.
We passed seven months ago today we passed VA Accountability. You heard our vets, you stole from us. Guess what, Bill? Youre fired. Youre fired. Get out. Youre fired. And to give former prisoners a second chance I proudly signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform into law. They have been trying to do that for so many years.
So many years. Very unfair. And by the way some of the people that most supported it are the most conservative people youve ever seen. Both, both sides. Very bipartisan believe it or not for a change. But while we are pushing and pursuing all of these commonsense policies to advance the common good for our citizens Democrats are pushing a cynical and destructive agenda of radicalism, resistance.
Resist. Resist and revenge. Revenge. What do you think of their signs resist? What the hell? Lets get something done, right? Resist. Resist. Resist. Isnt that weird? You know you are looking to have a parade thats called resist. You say what the hell does that mean? No, no. We want to do legislation. There are so many things we can be doing together.
The Democrats are now advancing an extreme $100 trillion government takeover called the Green New Deal. But Id rather not talk about it tonight because I dont want to talk them out of it too soon.  Because I love campaigning against the Green New Deal. I want them to make they do a big part of their platform.
No more airplanes, no more cows. One car per family. One car. Youre going to love that in Michigan. Hey, how do you like the idea of one car per family? You know, I dont think one car per family in Michigan plays too well. Do you agree? Right? Not too well. And its got to be of course an electric car even if it only goes what, 160 miles?
What do you do, its 160 miles? Darling, where do I get a charge? Where do I get a charge, darling? No. We want to have a lot of cars per family. We want people to lead a great life and we want people to make those cars and we want all of these companies to keep coming to Michigan and all of the other great states and building those . And we had a problem because when they didnt want the airplanes they were saying well, how do you get to Europe?
Nobody knew. How do you get to Australia? Nobody knew but they are working on it and then they were interviewing this woman from Hawaii, the Senator. The one that was so vicious about Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh. Remember? By the way, do we love Justice Gorsuch and do we love Justice Kavanaugh?
She was so vicious to both and these are great people. She was vicious and they hit her. She didnt know about the Green New Deal and they hit her and shes from Hawaii. What do you think of the Green New Deal? It was just put up by the Democrats. Well, I like it very much but she never saw it. Then they said but you cant fly anymore and shes in Hawaii.
She said but how would I get to my island? They said we are working on some kind of a train system.  So she said okay, well then, I am for it 100 percent. It is the craziest thing I have ever seen. They want to rip down all of the buildings in Manhattan and rebuild them. Lets do that. Hey, Stanley, how do you like that idea?
I dont think so. I dont think Stanley likes that idea too much. Its the craziest thing but you know what, lets let them -- . Its like I attack so violently Pocahontas and -- And I knocked her out of the race I guess and I said what did I do that for? Its too early. Ive got to start in about nine months from now.
Weve got plenty more to knock out, youre right. They just keep coming, dont they? They just keep coming. Before I took the oath of office the United States automobile industry was decimated and it was going down and you people knew it better than anybody else. We lost one in four auto manufacturing jobs over the last few decades.
Think of it, one in four and I think the numbers were worse than that and so do you. But from the moment I entered the White House my first meeting was a meeting with car executives. I said what do I have to do to get your business going? We talked about CAFE standards where they were choking the engines, just choking them and costing a lot more for the cars and we had a great meeting and we worked on it and worked on it. We took historic and dramatic action to save the American auto industry and to defend American auto workers right here in Michigan.
Right. And just in the last very short period of time we have added another 6000 vehicle manufacturing and auto parts jobs in Michigan alone and prevented thousands more from being shipped overseas and from going to Mexico. They cant do that anymore. Cant do that. Cant do that anymore. Sorry, Mexico.
We want them to give us a little more help on the border by the way. You know Mexico has the toughest immigration laws in the world. We have the worst because the Democrats put in things that are so bad, so bad. Catch and release. You catch them and then you got to release them. Think of it. Visa lottery.
You are in a lottery system from these countries. You pick up a name. Isnt that nice? Guess what? Do you think they are giving us their best people? No, they are not. They are giving us their worst people and so would you and so would I. Visa lottery. Thats another beauty. We have nothing but bad coming out of those laws but you know the good thing about whats happening, the rush to the border, another two caravans now are pouring up. Mexico could stop them so easy and you know what?
If they dont its going to cost them a hell of a lot of money honestly because they could do it so easy. So easy. And if they dont and Im telling you right now we will close the damn border.  And I dont know if you know it or not Michigan but Mexico took about 30 percent of your car business.
Not when I was here. When Im here they are not. Its going the other way. 30 percent and if we close the border that means we are not taking those cars into our country and what does that mean? That means you are going to make more cars right here in the good old USA. Thats what it means. Right? Very simple.
Its all very simple. People try and make it too complicated. Its all very simple. One of the gravest threats to the survival of the U.S. auto industry was the job-killing, sovereignty-wrecking Trans-Pacific Partnership. It was going to decimate your industry. Thats why one of my very first acts in office was to withdraw our country from that horrible potentially disastrous trade deal.
And stop the offshoring of Michigan jobs. Saved a lot of jobs. That was a disaster. That would have been almost as bad as NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals in the history of the world. NAFTA. That was a beauty. Your empty factories are still all over the place. They still havent recovered from NAFTA. Well, NAFTA is going to be a thing of the past.
Soon. Or we will just go to pre-NAFTA, that was okay, too. We had a huge surplus with Mexico, then we did NAFTA. We lost over the last six, seven years with Mexico $100 billion. Before NAFTA, we made $40-$50 billion. Doesnt sound like too good a deal, right? So we have now the USMCA and its very good.
If the Democrats want to raise their hand -- its a hard thing for them to give us a victory but lets see if they raise their hands otherwise, we go to pre-NAFTA. We dont go to NAFTA, we go to pre-NAFTA. That was just okay with me. That was okay with me. A short time later I traveled to Detroit to cancel burdensome regulations that unfairly harm the motor city.
It was getting decimated. We renegotiated the U.S. Korea trade agreement to double the American auto exports to Korea. We doubled them. They were not happy about it. And to stop the cheap foreign pickup trucks from flooding our market. Thats your best market. Do you know why? Because we have a chicken tax.
We have a tariff, 25 percent and thats why its your best market because they cant come in here and take away your business and take away your jobs. They werent thrilled but thats okay. Under my administration we live by two simple rules, buy American and hire American. And we are already seeing good results.
Since the election we have created more than 55,000 brand-new motor vehicle and auto parts jobs in our country. 55,000. Fiat Chrysler just announced a $4.5 billion investment in Michigan including the first new auto plant in Detroit in over a generation. And they are going to be investing in our country $13.5 billion over a very short period of time.
And Ford has just announced a $1 billion investment just outside of Chicago as well as additional $900 million going right here in Michigan. And Ive been a little bit disappointed with them because everyone else is coming in but General Motors did just announce a $300 million investment at its Orion assembly plant here in Michigan, right now.
But Im also fighting with General Motors and the UAW to take swift action on the GM plants at Hamtramck and Warren, Michigan and Lordstown, Ohio. Get the damn plants open. Everyone else is coming in. Get them open now. Right? So with companies like Chrysler and Ford and Toyota and Volkswagen all investing heavily in America and heavily in the state of Michigan we think General Motors will soon be doing the same.
I really do believe it. You know they went before my time they went to China, they spent a lot of money building stuff. They went to Mexico. They spent a lot of money building stuff. Thats not helping us much. So we think they are going to come around. As we protect our jobs, we are also protecting Americas borders and we are taking on the extremist and they are really radical, radical extremist Democrats who want open borders in crime because thats what happens.
Open borders and crime. Last month alone more than 76,000 illegal immigrants arrived at our borders to be apprehended. We have to apprehend them. Do you know what a great job -- I mean seriously think of that, 76,000 people many of which are rough people. Okay, Im being nice because they will criticize me if Im not.
They will say how dare he say that. But we have people that have criminal records. We have a lot of people. We have a lot of problems. We apprehend them. We capture them. Do you know how tough that job is, border patrol? You know how tough? I dont think any of you guys here -- yeah, you would. That guy would like it. There are some people would like it. They love it. The great American patriots and ICE, these are great American patriots.
And we are on track for 1 million illegal aliens trying to rush our borders. It is an invasion, you know that. I say invasion. They say isnt that terrible? I dont know what these people are thinking. You know, its your country two. What are you thinking? 300 Americans a week die from Mexican-trafficked heroin.
300. Think of it, 300 a week. Tens of thousands of Americans are killed every year by heroin, meth, cocaine, fentanyl, vast quantities of which are smuggled across our southern border. You know that. 78,000 people died and thats a number thats much, much smaller than the real number. To confront the border crisis last month I declared a national emergency on our southern border.
The radical Democrats retaliated by passing a reckless resolution to terminate vital border security operations. Can you believe this? In two weeks ago I proudly issued my first veto. And two days ago our great Republicans in the House of Representatives -- I wont get fancy with you I will just say they essentially gave us the right to build the wall and lots of money is pouring in. So we are building the wall.
We will be finishing the wall. Its moving along rapidly. We are giving out many additional contracts. We are going to be building it in many different locations simultaneously with different contractors. And sometime over the next two weeks I will be going to a certain place which I wont tell you now because they will be waiting for me. I will be going to a certain place and we are going to be showing you mast sections of brand-new beautiful walls.
Because we are going to put the job to safety and to security of American citizens first. And you know when I campaigned its going to be so much easier the second time. Remember this, I never did this before and I am one and one, right? We are 1 for 1. 1 for 1.  and it was tough. It was tough.
You know why? Because I get up on a stage and Ive never debated before but I never left center stage. Right? Never left center stage meaning we were winning the whole time and I debated and I said where are these people coming from but I never did it and I never said to anybody Im going to produce jobs.
Im going to bring back your auto business. Im going to do great for the vets. Im going to do great for tax cuts. Im going to cut regulations more than anybody in the history of our country in two years. I never said -- I couldnt say that. But I did say that I was going to do it but who the hells going to believe me? Now Ive done more than I ever promised I was going to do so the debate should be very easy.
Democrats want to pretend there is no border crisis.  Thank you. Well, Ill give you a question, okay. So I told you before the lowest unemployment rates in the history of our country for African-American great citizens. Now I say that and its like I say that and I just say your turn, what the hell are they going to do to beat that?
And we have many other things for every single citizen, everybody is benefiting. Everybody. Everybody is benefiting. So before -- so before first election, my first election. What the hell? I never did it before. I did a good job though do you think? So did you. So did you. You know the fact is we did it together and Ive always said it. I didnt do it. We did it together.
But -- but think about it now instead of saying Im going to do this Im going to produce 5.5 million new jobs, Im going to bring back manufacturing 600,000 new jobs in a short period of time. Now Ive done it. I mean it should be easy dont you agree? It should be easy. Democrats want to pretend there is no border crisis for one simple reason because they have cause the border crisis and you know why else?
Honestly because they want boats and because they dont want to give us a win. They dont want to give us a win. They put that ahead of whats good for our country. The mass illegal immigration across our border is a direct consequence of Democrats supported loopholes, Democrat promises of amnesty, amnesty.
You have people coming up here you know they are all met by the lawyers, the lawyers and they come out, they are all met by the loiterers and they say the following phrase I am very afraid for my life. I am afraid for my life. Okay. And then I look at the guy, he looks like he just got out of the ring, hes a heavyweight champion of the world, hes . Its a big fat con job, folks.
Its a big fat con job. And Democrat sanctuary cities and their refusal to protect American borders its not the money. When I fought for them recently, they gave me so much money for everything else but nothing for the wall. Now think of it. Walls work, folks. We need the wall. They said would you call it slats?
I said Ill call it slats. Would you call it steel barriers? I said Ill -- I said Ill call it whatever the hell you want just give me the money to build it and then they sort of got a little cold feet and now I call it the wall and I got the money anyway. So thats over. But there open border policies are truly a betrayal to the American people.
This is dangerous whats coming into our country is dangerous. To defend the United States of America I deployed the United States military. I got thousands of troops. Right now we have about 4000 troops on our southern border and they are fantastic. And think of it, or years we defended the borders of foreign countries but we dont want to defend our own borders.
Think of how crazy this is. We are defending borders of countries that are 6000 miles away that many of you have never even heard the name of these countries but our southern border, our border along Mexico where we have a lot of problems in drugs and human traffickers and child traffickers and all of this coming in, we dont want to defend our border.
Think of that, how crazy that is. So now we are defending our borders for our country and the people of our country. In the last two years alone ICE officers -- we love ICE, have made listen to this though, 266,000 our risk of criminal aliens. Who the hell wants to do that? You dont want to do it, right?
You like what you are doing making cars, right? I like making cars I think better, too. But they like it. Thats what they do. They are great at it including those charged or convicted of nearly 100,000 assaults, 30,006 crimes, 4000 kidnappings and 4000 murders. Okay. We got them. They got them. How about if you dont get them?
How about if you leave all of those people? You know what that means for us dont you? The Democrats want to abolish ICE. They want to get rid of these very great patriots, these very tough people that love our country as much as anybody Ive ever seen. They want to set violent offenders free and directly they will be coming in to your communities.
We are not going to have it. We are not having it. We want our country to be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans not for criminal aliens. Right? The Republican Party will always stand with the heroes of ICE and the heroes of Border Patrol. These are great people. Every day of my Presidency ICE is tracking down gang members, drug dealers and criminal aliens and we are either throwing them behind bars or throwing them the hell out of our country.
And we are throwing out gangs like MS 13. These are some of the sickest, most demented, most vicious people in the world. We are throwing them out of our country by the thousands. In recent months the Democrat party has also been aggressively pushing extreme late-term abortion of allowing children -- to be ripped from their mothers womb right up until the moment of birth.
And now we go a step further in Virginia. The Governor stated that he would even allow a newborn baby, wrap the baby up, make the baby comfortable, to be executed after birth. That is why in my State of the Union address I called on Congress to immediately pass legislation prohibiting the extreme late-term abortion of babies.
The Democrat Party has never been further outside of the mainstream. They are being brought so far left you wouldnt like it folks. You wouldnt like it. You wont be happy. Radical Democrats are the party of high taxes, open borders, late-term abortion, crime, hoaxes and delusions. The Republican Party is the party for all Americans.
Its what we want to be. Its the way we want to live. We are the party of the American worker, the American family, and we are the party of the American dream. And every day we make good on the motto promises made, promises kept. Last week I signed in order to defend free speech on college campuses. And to keep America safe we are rebuilding Americas military might making it more powerful than ever before by far.
I withdrew the United States from the horrible costly one-sided Iran nuclear deal and look what happened. Iran is a different country today than it was two and a half years ago. I recognized Israels capital and open the American Embassy in Jerusalem. And just days ago I announced that the United States will recognize Israels sovereignty over the Golan Heights.
Very important. Very important. We also recognized the legitimate government of Venezuela and we strongly condemn the socialist brutality of the Maduro regime. We stand with the people of Venezuela and Cuba and Nicaragua and their righteous struggled to finally be free. We stand with them. Doing a lot of work.
Socialism is not a good thing, you are right. Each of us here tonight is united by the same timeless values. We believe in the American Constitution and the American rule of law. We believe in the dignity of work in the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way.
We believe in religious liberty, the right to free speech and the right to keep and bear arms. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, to honor our history, to be proud, to be happy, to love and always to respect our great American flag.  And we believe in the words and always will, we are not changing it, they want us to change a lot of things its not happening of our national motto in God we trust.
In God we trust. These are traditions, customs and principles that bind us together as citizens, as neighbors, as patriots. These are the values that unite people all across the magnificent lands of Michigan. These are the values that brought the incredible people of this incredible state to Grand Rapids for the very last rally of the 2016 campaign, probably the most exciting and hopefully the most fruitful campaign in the history of our country.
On that historic day you rejected the failed political establishment that chipped away your jobs, sold out your sovereignty and tied us down in endless foreign wars which we are now winning and getting out. You stood up to the corrupt special interest and you stood up to the rigged Washington power structure.
You have stood with me. You watched this rigged power structure. You were with me. I wont forget it and you will be very proud looking back that you did it. Thank you. You took back your country. You recaptured your destiny. You defended your dignity and you proudly reclaimed your freedom, maybe for a second time.
You have always been loyal to your nation and now you have a President who is loyal to you 100 percent. The Democrats took the people of Michigan for granted but with us you will never ever be forgotten again. You will never be taken for granted ever, ever, ever. I am fighting for you and your jobs in your life in your community with everything that I have and I will never ever stop and we are winning so big.
