Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Laconia, NH|September 15, 2016
Thank you very much. I have really good news for you. I just heard that the press is stuck on their airplane -- they cant get here.
I love it. So theyre trying to get here now. Theyre going to be about 30 minutes late. They called us and said could you wait, I said absolutely not; lets get going, right. Lets get going, New Hampshire.
And just so you understand, New Hampshire has a special place in my heart because this is where I won my first primary, right.
And we are going to stop the heroin and we are going to stop all of the problems that you have because you have them and were going to stop them, OK?
Youre always going to have them, and I mean this, youre always going to have a very special place in my heart. So, new polls have just come out.
And were leading in many of the battleground states, and were leading all over the country. The L.A. Times has us six points up nationwide.
On November 8th, New Hampshire can be the state that pushes us over the top.
Were going to win New Hampshire and were going to win back the White House, and were going to make America great again, remember that, remember that.
Its going to be a victory for the people, and especially those people who havent had hope in a long time. Thats a lot of people, believe me, thats a lot of great people. That means cities like Flint, Michigan -- I was there yesterday. In 1970, Flint had over 80,000 residents working at the General Motors plant, 80,000. Today its less than 8,000 people and heading south, believe me.
Forty percent of the city lives in poverty and now Ford, think of it, Ford, you read about it today. Ford has just announced theyre moving all small car productions, small car, the little ones, you know, but theyre pretty big. Theyre probably moving all production, they just dont want to say it, eventually -- I was right, I was right. Ive been saying this was going to happen for years, to Michigan, to Ohio, to every place that makes cars and its getting worse and worse.
Well theyre moving to Mexico on top of all the other car production that theyve moved there and that other companies have moved there. This is -- we are creating the car capital of the world in Mexico, believe me folks. And Im going to make sure that ends if Im elected. Its going to end, end.
So I went to Flint yesterday, to address the water crisis. Its a failure at every single level of government. Its tragic, and its heartbreaking, and should never happen in the United States of America, ever. It used to be, cars were made in Flint and you couldnt drink the water in Mexico. Now the cars are made in Mexico and you cant drink the water in Flint. Thats whats happening to our country, see thats whats happening to our country.
This is what happens when we build up other countries instead of our own, we lose control. Its time to take care of our people and our workers.
Im campaigning in every community, and if you think this is easy, its not. Ive been all over the place. Wall Street, you know if you wouldve looked today, all over, including Waldorf Astoria today, we made a big speech on the economy, etc. and I go from there to another place to here. And I love doing it because what were doing is a movement. What were doing, youre going to be so proud of your country very, soon so just remember, so proud.
And it is a movement and its a movement that everybody is talking about, everybody is talking about it. Im running to be the President of all Americans. Our support comes from all regions and backgrounds and all walks of life. You are the cops and soldiers, the carpenters and welders, the accountants and lawyers, young and old, rich and poor, black, white, Latino, but above all, were all Americans, all of us together, all are Americans.
USA! USA! USA!
While Hillary Clinton...
... slanders you as the deplorable and irredeemable -- that means you cant ever get better, she doesnt understand you. I call you hard-working American patriots who love your family and love your country.
Her comments displayed the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led her to violate federal laws, Secretary of State, hide and delete her e-mails, destroy her phones with a hammer, put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lie to Congress and sell government favors and access through the Clinton Foundation.
Its the same attitude of arrogance and entitlement that explains why she has never taken accountability for the disasters she created all over the world, in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Iran, all over. Its the same reason why she wont take responsibility for her central role in unleashing ISIS -- thats what happened, bad decisions.
She has bad judgment. Bernie Sanders told us that. Obviously, Bernie, you know a rigged system with the superdelegates and Bernie is right now home watching us together.
But in all fairness Bernie Sanders said she suffers from bad judgment, hes right. Her policies have created disaster overseas and poverty at home, so many places.
I am running to reverse these failures and to create a new American future, and there will be. And that future begins with prosperity at home. My economic agenda can be summed up in three words: jobs, jobs, jobs.
Our jobs have been taken away from us -- theyve gone to Mexico and theyve gone all over the world but theyve been taken away by incompetent politicians that dont know whats happening, or politicians that do know whats happening, but theyre being bossed by special interests, they have donors, you know whats happening.
My economic plan rejects the cynicism that says our labor force will keep shrinking, that our jobs will keep leaving, and that our economy can never grow as it did once before, and theres no reason why it shouldnt be able to grow even better. Everything that is broken today can be fixed. And every failure can be turned into a great, great success, its going to happen.
And by the way, I just see offstage a very special person. Has anyone ever heard of Eric Trump?
Eric, come up Eric, my son Eric Trump. He is working, and Ivanka and Don and Tiffany, all of them, they are working.
Are we not proud of this man?
What is it guys, 53 days to go or something like that? We are going to make America great; we are going to win. There is no question about it. We will not let you down. Thank you guys for being here tonight.
Thank you, Eric. He has been working hard. His sister too, and his brother Don and Tiffany made a great speech, and Melania made a great speech -- everybody, theyre working so hard. And boy the press likes to hit them, right, boy the press likes to hit them. And theyre such good kids but they can take it -- Eric, can you take it? I think so right. Theyre good kids.
Its time to stop fighting over the smallest words and start dreaming about the great things we can achieve together as a country. Jobs can stop leaving our country and start pouring in. Were going to take them in, no longer a one-way highway into oblivion.
Failing schools can become flourishing schools. Crumbling roads and bridges can become gleaming new infrastructure. Inner-cities can experience a flood of new jobs and investment. And rising crime can give way to safe and prosperous communities. All of these things and so much more are possible. We have such potential in this country.
But to accomplish them we must replace the present policy of globalism, which has moved so many jobs and so much wealth out of our country and replace it with a new policy of Americanism, thats what it is, Americanism.
I am not running to be the President of the world.
I am running to be the President of the United States of America.
USA! USA! USA!
Thank you. And I am spending a lot of my money doing this I want to tell you. These other people, its all donations, let the money pour in, were spending a lot. You better make sure I win on November 8th because Im going to have wasted a hell of a lot of time, energy and money.
You know when they tell me, Mr. Trump it doesnt matter what youve accomplished. First of all, Ive accomplished nothing, youve accomplished, Im the messenger. But what youve accomplished is so incredible, I say unless we win weve accomplished nothing, just remember. We have to win on November 8th, we have to get there, get everybody, New Hampshire, gotta vote. Its time to replace our failed political system with a new American system. If we lower our taxes, which were going to do bigly, remove destructive regulations and we will be chopping, unleash the vast treasure of American energy and negotiate trade deals that put America first, then there is no limit to the number of jobs we can create and the amount of prosperity we can unleash. America will truly be the greatest place in the world to invest, to hire, to grow and to create new jobs, new technologies and entire new industries, America, America.
Made in America, remember? He remembers. Some of my older folks here right. We know, made in America, you remember? You dont see that very often and youre seeing it less and less, were gonna bring it back, made in America.
My first day in office Im going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last eight years.
All the needless job killing regulations will be canceled. Millions of new jobs will come pouring in. Were going to lift the restrictions on American energy which means lower electricity prices and half a million new jobs a year, big stuff. And thats just the beginning.
Also on my first day, I am going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare.
Its a disaster. This will instantly save another two million jobs. Im also going to completely reform our trade deals. We are going to re-negotiate the worst trade deal ever made in the history -- not of our country -- in the history of the world, NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, a disaster.
Were going to stand up to China and keep America out of TPP, thats another disaster. We dont need another massive, multinational deal that ties us up and binds us down and is so complicated that nobody in our country understands it. Other countries, they know every word. They know every sentence, every paragraph. Our people, they dont even read deals. They sign whatever is put in front of them. Just take a look at what happened with Obamacare. Practically nobody in Congress read it and what a mess we have.
New Hampshire has lost nearly one in three -- think of it -- one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and one in four since China joined the World Trade Organization, both Hillary Clinton backed disasters, bad judgment, remember, bad judgment. And Im going to appoint the best and toughest trade negotiators and we have the best in the world. We have the greatest business people and the greatest negotiators in the world. We dont use them, we use political hacks.
Were going to stand up and defend our American workers.
Any deal that doesnt increase jobs and wages in America I will oppose and I mean seriously oppose, not politician oppose. We are going to turn our bad trade deals into great ones.
Another major reform is going to be school choice. Ive outlined. -- and by the way we are going to terminate common core and bring education local.
Ive outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America the freedom to choose the private, public, magnet or religious school of his/her choice.
This will help lift millions of poor African American and Hispanic children out of poverty. The poverty in our country is unbelievable.
Its time to break up the failed democratic control over our inner-cities and provide real hope and opportunity to every single community in this nation. Our policies on taxes, trade, regulations and educations will grow. Incomes will boost and go right through the roof. We have to increase peoples incomes -- do you know that many people in this room made more money 18 years ago in real wages, think of it, than they do now?
Theyre working harder now, theyre older, and many people because of Obamacare and for other reasons, are holding two jobs. So youre getting older, youre working harder and youre making less, I dont think that sounds great.
The only good thing is that Im also working a hell of a lot harder than Ive ever worked before also, so I dont feel so sorry for you, working hard.
But were enjoying it because we see the fruits of our labor, we see whats happening and in 52 days youre going to have a lot of happy people in this state and in this country, Ill tell you.
So we want to reduce poverty for our African American and Hispanic communities, have to. Since President Obama came into office another two million Hispanic Americans have fallen into poverty. This is unacceptable. To the Hispanic community I say we are going to protect your jobs. We are going to build up your schools and we are going to deliver safety and opportunity for your children.
Safety also means protecting our people from radical Islamic terrorism.
My opponent wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees.
You saw what happened yesterday. Hundreds of thousands of people are being approved to pour into the country. We have no idea who they are. What a mistake, the great Trojan horse. Two hundred years from now theyll be saying boy that was a bad, bad couple of years.
You know folks we all have a big heart and we want to build safe havens. We owe $20 trillion very soon, the debt has doubled under Obama but we owe $20 trillion. The gulf states have a lot of money. Were going to get them to put up the money and well build it and they have to put up the money. Well build safe havens, well take care of people but we cannot let them come into our country, we just cant, not now.
According to the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, her entire plan will bring in 620,000 refugees in her first term and cost our country $400 billion. What are we doing? What are we doing? Instead of providing free health care and jobs to refugees from around the world, we should rebuild our inner-cities and help struggling Americans and we should work with Hispanics, we should work with African American citizens and help our inner-cities. And we should take care of our great veterans who are not being treated properly.
They have their priorities so very wrong. I support the construction of safe zones in the region and we will get the gulf states, were going to get them to pay for it. The gulf states wouldnt be there for very long if it wasnt for us. At the same time -- thats right, keep the oil and remember my statement, you shouldnt go in but if you go in, when you go out, keep the oil. We wouldnt do a thing like that, its not politically correct right?
At the same time, we will rebuild our military, which is so badly depleted with the greatest people on earth running it. We are going to get our allies to pay their fair share. You know we defend many countries and were getting socked on that one too, we get socked on everything. Only five of the 28 member NATO countries -- you remember Ive been talking about this, they say I dont like NATO, I like NATO. But we are five out of the 28 countries that are paying their obligation to spend 2% of GDP on defense. So dont you think theyre supposed to be paying maybe?
I will convene a summit of our European and Asian allies to make sure that everyone is sharing the security burden and that we are properly focused on protecting our country, and other countries frankly, from radical Islamic terrorism, a word and a phrase that President Obama and Hillary Clinton just refuse to use. And unless youre going to use it and unless youre going to say it, youre never ever going to be able to do anything about it, just remember that.
In all things, its time to put Americans first and time to start taking care of each other. We have to take care of each other.
And is there any place thats better to be than a Trump rally in New Hampshire, here we are.
No place. There is no place better. And you know what else? There is no place safer.
Earlier this week I rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable quality childcare for their children.
My daughter Ivanka was so helpful. She is so dedicated to that and she has been talking about that long before June 16th of last year when I decided that we have to do this.
On policy after policy, we are going to provide opportunity, prosperity and security for all Americans. I am going to lower your taxes beyond any number you thought possible.
And by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes very, very substantially.
She is. Very, very substantially.
I am going to get rid of massive amounts of unnecessary regulations on business and in your life, its killing your businesses. I am going to repeal and replace Obamacare. I am going to appoint justices of the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.
I am going to rebuild our depleted military and were going to take care of our vets-- we have plenty of them here tonight. I am going to safe your Second Amendment which is under siege
And the NRA gave us the earliest endorsement theyve ever given. So I want to thank the NRA -- these are great people, these are great people. Youve got to get out and if you want to save your Second Amendment, believe me, you have to get out and vote.
I am going to stop illegal immigration and drugs coming into our country and yes we will build the wall. Thats right,
Build that wall. Build that wall. Build that wall.
We will. We will build the wall and Mexico will pay for the wall, believe me, they will -- they will.
We have a trade deficit thats so massive with Mexico that the wall is a peanut compared to what were losing. They will pay for the wall, they just dont know it yet
But believe me theyre going to pay for it. And theyll be happy to do it. It just has to be explained properly.
I am going to so importantly re-negotiate your disastrous trade deals, especially NAFTA. Now NAFTA is turning out to be the worst but were going to re-negotiate and we will make great trade deals and well put our American workers first. But heres the thing, if for some reason we cant re-negotiate NAFTA, they could say no, unlikely, but they could say no, we will terminate NAFTA and well have new trade deals that will be phenomenal for the United States of America, OK, right.
Were not playing games. And Apple and our other major companies will start making their iPhones, and their computers, and other products inside the United States not in China and all over the world except here, OK? Because thats whats happening right now bigly. We dont make our products anymore in the United States but we will again like never before, mark my words.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals. American cars will travel the roads, American planes will soar the skies, and American ships will patrol beautifully the sea.
American steel will send new skyscrapers high into the clouds, American hands will rebuild this nation, and American energy mined from American sources will power our nation.
And believe me when I say this, American workers, right, American workers will be hired to do the job, American workers.
We will put new American steel into the spine of this country. I will fight for every neglected part of this nation and I will fight to bring us together as one American people. Imagine -- just imagine -- what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one flag, right -- saluting -- saluting one flag, right.
USA! USA! USA!
Its time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new inclusive and truly prosperous American future. Jobs will return, incomes will rise and new factories will come back, and they will come back rushing into our shores. It will be a beautiful sight to behold. Once more we will have a government of, by, and for the people.
We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you very much everybody. November 8th go out and vote.
