Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Greenville, North Carolina|July 17, 2019
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to Greenville, North Carolina. I want to thank you. And to Mike Pence. Done a great job. Great Vice President. Thank you, Mike. And we have all night. We have a lot of fun tonight. I have nothing to do. Nothing, nothing. We have nothing to do but make our country great again and thats happening fast.
Its wonderful to be back in this beautiful state with thousands of hardworking, North Carolina patriots, and thank you for your support. And thank you for that very big victory we had three years ago. Time is flying. Youre getting ready? Lets do it again, right? Lets do it again. I just heard that the United States House of Representatives has overwhelmingly voted to kill the most ridiculous project Ive ever been involved in. The resolution, how stupid is that, on impeachment.
I want to thank those Democrats because many of them voted for us. The vote was a totally lopsided 332 to 95 to 1. 332 to 95. Think of it, we have the strongest economy in history, the lowest unemployment numbers ever. Weve rebuilt the most powerful military. It was totally depleted when I took office and now its rebuilt.
We passed the largest tax cuts and regulation cuts of any President or any administration in history. We took care of our great vets, including Veterans Choice and Veterans Accountability, and they want to try and impeach, its a disgrace, its a disgrace. So now we have that behind us. And I have to say this, and Ill say it just once, what happened to me with this witch hunt should never be allowed to happen to another President of the United States, never ever again.
And I want to thank Republican leadership for what theyve done for all of us by stopping that hoax, the Russian hoax, I call it. Because America is winning again. America is respected again, and because we are finally putting America first. Our economic policy can be summed up in three very beautiful and simple words: jobs, jobs, jobs.
Weve created six million new jobs since election day. If I would have said that nobody would have believed it. If I would have said that, the fake news would have said hes exaggerating. And I wouldnt have said it because I wasnt even sure we could do this. Think of it, six million jobs since Election Day.
And by the way, North Carolina has had its best economic year in the history of your state. Our country has added more than 180,000 people to the workforce, and think of that, through what weve done on a federal basis, you picked up over 180,000 thousand jobs, North Carolina. Think of that. And you have the lowest unemployment rate.
You have a lot of good things. But lets not talk too much about North Carolina. Lets win this election nationwide. You remember North Carolina? That was going to be the Clinton firewall. She spent a fortune here, and I kept coming in and coming out. They call it earned media, I earned it. I kept coming in and coming out and every time I left, I said I dont think well lose in North Carolina.
You know what, I was right. We won it, we won it so. So, I just want to thank everybody. Seriously, this is a big -- that was a big deal. November 8. That was a big deal. Donald Trump has won the great state of North Carolina. The big deal. That was when you started to see the folks at a certain -- other convention, beautiful looking place.
One of the most beautiful venues Ive ever seen, but I dont want any part of it. It was unlucky. I dont want any part, but thats when you saw the people say, "What the hell is going on?", "Whats happening?". And then it was state after state it was Florida, it was South Carolina, we love South Carolina, right?
It was Pennsylvania. Remember, they wouldnt announce the numbers in Pennsylvania, so there was 1% of the vote remaining. If I lost every one of those votes, we still win by luck, and they wouldnt announce it. They wouldnt announce. And then we won the great state of Wisconsin, first time in many, many decades, not a Republican.
And then we had a surprise but not a surprise to us, because were bringing back the auto industry, brought so much back to the great state of Michigan, that was a shocker, remember that? You remember a certain hand on that beautiful board, and they said, "You know, this Ford is getting awfully red." Thats Republican.
Theres a lot of red up there. We had a lot of -- that was one hell of a night, wasnt it though? I think it was -- maybe you know there are those that say one of the most extraordinary and exciting evenings in the history of television and the history of anything, and you know you can go? All over the world, in some cases it was morning you go to Asia, you go to Europe, you go all over, it was just record setting.
And heres the point, we have to do it again. We have to do it again. And the reason we have to not only to do new things, which we will. And you know, statutorily, and we had all sorts of artificial witch hunts over our head. Can you imagine? If we didnt have to go through that hoax? I dont know that we would have done any better.
To be honest with you, I think weve done more in two and a half years than any president ever -- first two and a half years. But could you imagine what it could have been if we didnt have the witch hunt? You said it. I wont say it because its a terrible -- its a terrible word. So I will not say that this guy said, "If we didnt have the bullshit." No, no. Could you imagine if we didnt have the time wasted, the time and everything.
Can you imagine? And you know a friend of mine said? Maybe you wouldnt have done as well. Is that possible that can happen? Maybe we would have had too much time on our hands. Who knows, but I can say nobody in their first two and a half years has done anywhere close to what "we" not me, what weve all done.
So the unemployment rate among African-Americans is the lowest in the history of our country. Unemployment, among Hispanic-Americans, where were doing really well. You know why? Because they want a strong border, they want it because they understand the border better than anybody. They want that strong border.
They want that wall, thats being built right now. They want that wall, and they really do. They understand the border better than anybody. And they dont want criminals coming in, they dont want crime coming. They dont want to lose their jobs. They like the fact that their salaries are going up, their wages are going up. They understand it better.
So Hispanic-American, the best unemployment numbers in our history, Asian-Americans, the best unemployment numbers in our history. And likewise, women, 74 years, Im sorry, women, I let you down. Its not in our history, but were going to be there very soon, were going to be there very soon. Women are doing incredibly.
And we men, the men are going to get angry. Sorry, man. Whoa, look at all those signs. Women, Women for Trump. Well, thank you. Its a lot of signs. You remember last election? Donald Trump will never ever get the women. Then we get this tremendous number of women. Weve got this tremendous number of women and during the election night they said, "Whats going on?", You know what its called?
Suppression polls. Suppression. Polls are just as fake as the news itself, but women filled 60% and Im sorry to tell you, these men, they are going to sue me for discrimination now. Women fill 60% of all of the new jobs created last year. Women took 60%. Whats wrong with you, man? But the radical Democrats are trying to destroy all of our countrys tremendous achievement and our countrys tremendous success.
Unprecedented. Weve had unprecedented success. Leaders come in from other countries. Prime ministers, presidents, kings, queens, dictators, sometimes, I hate to say it dictators. And they all start off by saying, "Mr. President, Id like to congratulate you on the incredible economy that youve created, the greatest, anywhere in the world by far.
And sadly, China, who I have a very good relationship with. President Xi, I really like him, but China has had, yesterday it was announced, the worse year in 27 years, and weve had the best. And if our opponent ever got into office, instead of being up 62%, instead of those 401s of yours being up 60, 70, 80, 90%. Crash.
Big crash. You would have had a crash, the likes of which we have never seen before if they got in office, because we freed up our country, we freed up our economy with -- especially with regulation cuts, but also with those big beautiful tax cuts. We freed them all. The leading voices of the Democrat Party are left wing extremists, who reject everything our nation stands for.
But again, I have to tell you, this vote was so big. I have to thank many of the Democrats. I mean, that was amazing. No no. I really do, I respect it. I really do. That was a -- that was a slaughter, but many of those people that voted for us this afternoon is somewhat of a sneak attack, a real sneak attack.
Many of those people that voted for us were Democrats, and I want to thank them because they did the right thing for our country. Republicans know that America is the greatest force for peace and justice in the history of our world, but these left wing ideologues see our nation as a force of evil. The way they speak so badly of our country.
They want to demolish our Constitution, weaken our military, eliminate the values that built this magnificent country. You have to look at some of their recent comments, which you never talked about. When you see the four Congresswomen. Oh, isnt that lovely? Ill give you just a couple. I have pages and pages, but we dont want to bore you.
We wouldnt want to go too long, but we have to give a couple because thats the great thing about live television, they cant cut it. Representative Ilhan Omar of a really great state, I almost won the first time in decades and decades, Minnesota. Great state. By the way, I keep hearing how much enthusiasm is in the radical left.
I dont think they have enthusiasm. Theyre just fighting with each other. We have all of the enthusiasm. He goes home now to mommy and he gets reprimanded and thats the end. Sorry, mommy. Sorry, mom. Didnt mean to embarrass you, mom. But its true. We have the enthusiasm, folks. Look at this, look at this.
And by the way, thousands and thousands of people outside, and people that couldnt get in, thousands. Weve got all the enthusiasm, theyre fighting each other. Theyve gone so far left. Nobody wants to even think about it. So Representative Omar blamed the United States for the terrorist attacks on our country, saying that terrorism is a reaction to our involvement in other peoples affairs.
She smeared U.S. service members involved in Blackhawk Down. In other words, she slandered the brave Americans, who were trying to keep peace in Somalia. Omar minimized the September 11th attacks on our homeland, saying some people did something. I dont think so. Some people did something. Yeah, some people did something, all right.
She pleaded for compassion for ISIS recruits attempting to join the terrorist organization. She was looking for compassion. Omar left that Americans stick of Al-Qaeda in a menacing tone and remarked that, "You dont say America with this intensity. You say Al-Qaeda makes you proud. Al-Qaida makes you proud." You dont speak that way about America.
And at a press conference just this week, when asked whether she supported Al-Qaeda, thats our enemy, thats our enemy. They are a very serious problem that we take care of, but they always seem to come along somewhere. She refused to answer. She didnt want to give an answer to that question. Omar blamed the United States For the crisis in Venezuela.
We think of that one and she looks down with contempt on the hardworking Americans saying that ignorance is pervasive in many parts of this country. And obviously, and importantly, Omar has a history of launching vicious anti-Semitic screeds. And she talked about the evil Israel and its all about the Benjamins, not a good thing to say.
So, thats Omar, thats Omar. And by the way, many other things, all you have to do is press the right button on your beautiful screen and youll see thing of -- you didnt hear this over the last two days, or did you hear anybody talk about that? Her colleague, Representative Rashida Tlaib agreed with Omars characterization of 9/11 and said that members of Congress who support Israel forgot what country they represent.
And Tlaib also used the F word to describe the presidency and your President. Isnt that nice, even for me, she was describing the president of the United States and the presidency, with the big fat vicious, the way she said it, vicious F word. Thats not somebody that loves our country. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.
Check out her scores by the way with her new green new deal, the green new deal. Where did that come from? Shes conducted outrageous attacks against men and women of law enforcement. She compared American border agents managing a humanitarian crisis that I always said was a humanitarian crisis, and they said it was manufactured.
They dont say it was manufactured, and were stopping it. And I want to thank Mexico. Theyve got 21,000 soldiers now stopping people from coming into our country. But Cortez, somebody said thats not her name. They said thats not her name, sir. I said, "No, no. I dont have time to go with three different names.
Well call her Cortez." Too much time -- takes too much time. So Cortez also, she said, "Essentially, Nazis are running concentration camps. And when Mike Pence went down just a few days ago with members of Congress and the media, and you looked at those so-called horrible concentration camps, they said, "Wow, these places are clean.
Wow, they have air conditioning. They have water. And you know, to be honest, its not like they came and we want to take care of people. We got to straighten out our immigration laws." You know in a very short period of time, if the Democrats would give us a few votes, we could solve the immigration problem and it would be so great.
But these kids and these people come from rough places And Ill tell you what, some of them said, "Weve never lived like this before." They have water, they have air conditioning, they have things that theyve never seen, and we listen to her talking about drinking water from toilets, which was a lie, which was a lie.
Cortez said that illegal immigrants are more American than any person who seeks to keep them out ever will be. Can you believe that? Thats what shes saying. She described contemporary America, thats you, thats me, thats all of us, as garbage, garbage, a garbage, Remember Deplorables, right? That sounds worse, I think, thats worse, but well save it for whoever is going to be the nominee.
And right now, sleepy Joes, not looking too good. Pocahontas -- Pocahontas is gaining a little bit because we probably use the Pocahontas a little bit too early. But thats OK. Well bring it out of retirement very soon. They have a new one who knocked the hell out of Biden during a debate. He said I wasnt prepared for that question.
Thats not a good answer. Can you imagine? And according to the polls, I won every single debate, Republican and against Hillary. Can you imagine -- those are the polls. They wont admit that, many, many polls. But can you imagine if I said, "Oh, oh, Im sorry, I wasnt prepared for that question." Im -- Im gone, Thats the end of Trump.
Hes not prepared. Hes not mentally prepared. Thats his problem. But everybody that knows him knows that. But no, Harris hit him with a pretty easy question on busing. What? I would say, thats pretty easy. And he choked. He choked and then he said, "Im sorry. I ran out of time. He ran out of time. And then you have a young guy, Buttigieg, Buttigieg.
Theyre saying how to say his name, boot edge edge. Hes a beauty. He runs a failed city. His city is doing so badly. Mike Pence was the governor of that state. I said, "How do we see us as the mayor?" Mike is one of the nicest human beings youll ever meet. He said -- And Mike said, "He never did a good job.
Im so shocked to see him running." OK. And then he goes back home and African-Americans literally were so angry at him for the lousy job, and hes supposed to be like a hot, young star. If thats a hot, young star, I guess, I just dont know stardom anymore. That is not a star. Thats not a star, boot edge edge.
You say boot, and then add edge edge, Buttigieg. I dont see him dealing with President Xi of China. I dont see him meeting successfully with Kim Jong un. I dont see him dealing, and nobody has been tougher with Russia than Donald Trump. I dont see him deal with Vladimir Putin, and we have good relationships with them and many others, except now were no longer the suckers.
Like with NATO, we protect Europe. We spend hundreds of billions of dollars, and theyre not paying their fair share. So last year, I went and said, "Folks. Sorry, youve got to pay your fair share." Sixteen years, it was going like this, the contribution, And now its like a rocket ship, $100 billion. And I said to him, great people, 28 nations, including the US, I said to him, "Listen, were taking care of you.
You screw us on trade and you dont pay your military bills. This is not a good deal for the United States." So were taking care of trade. We wanted to do it nice and slow and easy. You know we had a world balance, but the European Union is terrible to us on trade, terrible. Frankly, theyre as tough or tougher than China, just smaller numbers.
Thats the only difference. With China, $507 billion dollars. As you look over the years, for many, many years, theyve been taken. And guys like Biden say, "Oh well, wed stop it." Well, he was there eight years, wed stop that. No Trump is stopping it. Trump is. So Representative Ayanna Pressley, is she related in any way to Elvis?
I dont know. Who knows? You never know? She thinks that people with the same skin color, all need to think the same. She said we dont need any more brown faces that dont want to be brown voices. We dont need black faces, that dont want to be a black voice. And just as we -- can you imagine, if I said that?
It would be over. Right? It would be over. It would be over, but wed find a way to survive. Right? We always do. Here we are. Here we are. We find a way, that always find a way. Just this week, she refused to condemn the AntiFa. These are bad people. You notice -- You notice they always attack people that really have never been attacked before.
They attack, and I dont want to be disrespectful to people that have taken a lot of shots to the face, but they wouldnt attack some of these people in this room. Theyre not attacking bikers for Trump. Theyre not attacking construction workers for Trump. Theyre not attacking law enforcement or military for Trump.
Theyre attacking a single man standing there with a camera, who never got hit and never hit back before in his life. They dont attack the people that we wish they attack. That wouldnt be a pretty picture. That wouldnt look -- that wouldnt look too good for them. But they dont, its very, very sad. AntiFa, these are bad people.
These are sick, bad people. Remember that. These are bad people. These are bad people, AntiFa. They dont get the bad press. The press doesnt want to talk to them. They are very evil. Theyre hitting people over the head with sticks, and I mean sticks. I mean, bats even. Theyre whacking people with bats.
Theyre very brave. They always show up with a mask and theyre covered, because then they go home to mom and dad. They dont want mom and dad to know where they were. But they always attack people that really cant defend themselves very well. Right? Theyre not attacking this group. Theyre not attacking North Carolina.
So these Congresswomen their comments are helping to fuel the rise of a dangerous militant hard left. But thats OK, because were going to win this election like nobodys ever seen before. And tonight, I have a suggestion for the hate-filled extremists who are constantly trying to tear our country down.
They never have anything good to say, thats why I say, "Hey, if they dont like it, let them leave, let them leave." Right? Let them leave. Theyre always telling us how to run and how to do this. How do -- you know what, if they dont love it, tell them to leave it. I dont know. And now watch, Ill go back tonight.
Oh, sir, that was so controversial, sir. No, Im just saying its their choice. They can come back when they want. But you know they dont love our country. I think in some cases, they hate our country, and theyre so angry. Even yesterday, they were on the stage. I said. Let me watch this and the anger.
They were trying to be nice. But its hard -- its hard for them to do that. The choice for every American has never been more clear. Thats true. The Democrat agenda is anti-worker, anti-jobs, anti-citizen, anti-family and anti-common sense, with the exception of all of those Democrats that voted for us today.
Well give them -- theyre fine. Theyre fine. They are fine and they, you know, you lose to them. Its different. Its OK. Its called normal political back and forth. But I want to tell you something, the Democrats are being so vile and so vicious moving so far left, its out of control. Its out of control.
The Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth, and 100% pro-American. So were thrilled tonight to be joined by several North Carolina Republican leaders, really great people. Theyve been so helpful to me, and theyre doing an incredible job. Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest, North Carolina treasurer Dale Folwell, Greenville Mayor P.J. Connelly.
I hear he does a good job. Good job. And North Carolina GOP Chair Michael Whatley. I want to also thank and Ill tell you hes been a warrior for the last three months, really a warrior when we need him the most, Senator Thom Tillis. Thank you, Thom. He really is. Hes been really good and weve got to get out and work and make sure he gets re-elected.
And also Representatives Mark Walker and Richard Hudson. And two friends of mine that decided you know they had a choice. They could stay back and fight the hoax of impeachment or they could be here and bask in the glory of victory. I said, "Do me a favor, stay back. Mark Meadows and Mrs. Meadows is here right now.
Debbies here. Thank you, Deb. These are warriors and another one whos just incredible, NCAA wrestling champion, great guy. He wanted to stay back. I said, "Are you sure you dont want to come?" "I do want to come, but I really want you to win today. If you dont mind." I said, "OK, lets you better stay back.
If I see you here, Im going to be very angry." And they did their job, didnt they? This man is from the great state of Ohio, Congressman Jim Jordan. And were going to do this quickly, but its just important that you get out and vote. Theyre two great people. I want to introduce the next member of Congress from North Carolinas 3rd congressional district, just won a great race, Dr. Greg Murphy.
Greg is a winner.
Thank you, President Trump, for coming back to eastern North Carolina. This is Trump country. And I promise, if elected your congressman, I will be a congressman that has our Presidents back. The 3rd district -- the 3rd district is not going to elect another Pelosi Congressman. It is not going to do that.
So we thank him for coming in eastern North Carolina, and we are here to support him. Thank you, all.
So you know, Greg will be great on jobs, all the things you want, tough on crimes, stronger on borders, pushing the wall. Hell be pushing it like nobody, but were building the wall, but were pushing it. Its like pulling teeth. Weve got six lawsuits on the wall. Weve won two of them. Were going to win others.
But you think its easy, dont you folks? You think this is easy, but were building a lot of wall and we hope if we can win that final one, so important, its going before the Supreme Court, well have over 400 miles of wall built by the end of next year. So go out, get Greg elected. Great victory, by the way.
That was a great primary and a great victory. That same day, theres another crucial election in North Carolinas 9th -- You know, right? You know what were talking about night. I know its not here, but its very close. Right? 9th Congressional district, the Democrat in the race is an ultra-liberal named Dan McCready, wants to take away your guns.
He wants to raise your taxes. He doesnt care about borders. He likes open borders, and he really admires socialism. I dont think that works too well in North Carolina. It doesnt work too well in our country. Were joined tonight by the Republican candidate, who is really a special man, a great man. Hes gonna be a great, great Congressman Dan Bishop.
Dan?
So, as President Trump said, there are two Dans in this race. Dan McCready said that Donald Trump is the greatest threat to democracy ever and backed crooked Hillary. Dan McCready took money from Ilhan Omar. And Mr. President, Dan McCready wants to repeal your tax cuts. Now, he would be the wrong Dan. As for me, Im going to go to Washington and Im going to stand with President Donald J. Trump, and that makes me the right Dan.
And with the help of President Trump, were going to win the 9th District. So go to votedanbishop.com and sign up. Thank you.
Thank you, Dan. Thank you, Dan. And he will indeed defend your values, your family, and he will always defend our Second Amendment. Unlike their opponents, theyre really into destroying our Second Amendment. So everyone from the 9th District, go out and vote for Dan Bishop, a very special man, two very, very special people.
On the issue of everything, a lot of issues, Democrats have put the needs of foreign citizens far ahead of our own citizens. Nowhere in this world is there anything like whats happening with immigration, how bad it is. The Democrats, open border policies, deplete our public services, overcrowd our schools and hospitals, and bring crime, drugs and deadly gangs into our community.
The Democrats want to spend more money on health care for an illegal immigrant than they do for a citizen of the United States. So, just two days ago, our Department of Justice charged 22 members of the savage, brutal, horrible gang MS-13 in California, whove been violently operating for more than 10 years.
We got them all. We think they are no good with conducting brutal, medieval-style killings. You know what medieval style is? The little pieces, little pieces, little pieces, medieval style, including the dismemberment of their victims, and they enjoyed every minute of it. These are sick people. When I called them animals, Nancy Pelosi said, "How dare he use that name.
These are human beings." I dont think they were humans. Most of those indicted were in our country illegally, 19 to be exact, 19 of 22, think of that. They want to protect -- These are savage beasts. These are savage killers, and they should have been brought out a long time ago by the Obama administration.
Were bringing MS-13 out by the thousands, getting them the hell out of our country. And when you read about deportation and Sunday, you get a lot of people on Sunday, but we have a lot of people and were always shooting for the bad ones first, which makes sense. Right? But when you hear about that, we always want to get -- And by the way, do you know how dangerous it is for these ICE agents, these ICE and border patrol?
But ICE, they go into a nest. They call it a nest, a nest of these killers. Theyre tough. Theyre smart. And you know what? Theyre great patriots. They love our country. The danger that they have is incredible. And I just want to salute -- And I have to tell you, I want to salute ICE and border patrol.
And I want to support -- I want to support and salute law enforcement in the United States. These are -- are great people. These are great people and they dont get the credit they deserve. But you know what? I tell them all the time, you have no idea how much the American people, the American public, you have no idea how much they love you and respect you, law enforcement.
In the recent Democrat debate, every single candidate, everyone -- Biden was a little bit slower with the hand. It didnt work so well. They raised their hand in favor of giving free government health care. They raised their hand in giving a lot of other things that I dont think youre going to be happy with.
Illegal aliens will be very nicely covered. How about California? They just approved $100 million. They just approved $100 million to take care of the needs of illegal immigrants. And then you look on the sidewalks of Los Angeles, the sidewalks of San Francisco, Nancy Pelosis district, nobodys ever seen anything like it in the history of our country whats happening there.
So if you dont want Democrats to raid your health care, to steal away your money, to bankrupt your country, then you have a choice. You must vote Republican. All American citizens, including millions and millions of legal immigrants who work hard to come into our country who study, who wait in line sometimes for 10 years, and who respect our laws and follow the rules, they deserve a government that is loyal to them.
They work hard. You cant say you love our country if you want to destroy it through open borders. Open borders are a disaster. Human trafficking, you know, the first time I heard as a politician human trafficking, nobody talks about it. It sounded almost like an ancient crime, many many years ago, hundreds of years, thousands of years ago.
Human trafficking is the worst now throughout the world, because of the Internet. Its the worst thats ever been. And the worst treated of all, children, but its women, women. The Democrats want to do nothing about it. Human trafficking is worse than it ever has been in the history of the world, not just -- This is not a United States problem.
This is all over the world, human trafficking. Its a terrible, terrible thing and were going to solve it. You know most of it comes through in this country, our southern border, where we dont have the wall. Theyre not going through our points, theyre not going through areas where we have security, where we have guards where we have gates where we have all sorts of equipment.
No, they ride through the desert and they make a left, where you dont have the wall. Its so simple. Everybody knows it. You know, the Democrats all know it because five years ago, before I was here, they all wanted it. Now they dont want it. You know why they dont want it? For political reasons. And you know what?
Its going to cost them a lot of points in the election, I think probably cost them the election. And just lastly, Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities, which release violent criminal aliens onto our streets. You know, where we just picked up these 22 thugs, these 22 monsters, we just picked them up in, where, Los Angeles, sanctuary, city, wonderful sanctuary city.
Thom Tillis, senator, recently introduced a bill to give American victims the right to sue sanctuary cities and hold them accountable for the thousands of lives they have shattered. Theyve shattered these lives. Thank you very much, Thom. Every nation has the right to establish and enforce immigration rules in its national interest.
Its very simple, isnt it. Its common sense. Its so simple, and the voters understand it. We expect that those who seek to join our society will obey our laws, revere our Constitution, cherish our history, support themselves financially, and embrace our American values and love our American flag. We believe in an immigration system based on merit, merit where they come in. We have so many companies coming in, automobile companies, companies of all types, and we need workers.
We actually need workers. We have the lowest unemployment rate that weve had in 51 years. Soon, itll be the lowest ever. We need workers, but they have to come in where they can help our country. They have to come in based on merit. And were putting in bills, and lets see what happens. Otherwise, well just wait til we win back the House, win the Senate, win the presidency, and well vote.
Democrats have never been further outside of the mainstream. Theyre going crazy, folks. Theyre going crazy. More than 130 Democrats in Congress have signed up for Bernie Sanders, total government takeover of health care. Isnt that nice? This is one of the great -- It wont happen. He knows that. You know the guy never passed the bill.
He did -- He did nothing. Hes actually not even a Democrat. Is he an independent? I dont know. Hes running -- but he missed this time. Hey, Bernie, let me save you a lot of time and effort, Bernie. You missed your time. It got taken from you four years ago, Bernie. Not doing too well. Hes not doing too well, but thats OK. Youve got to hand it to him, hes up there ranting and raving and going like a lunatic.
I said to our first lady the other day, I was watching Bernie and he screamed. And his hairs all crazy. Were going to do this, Im going to do that, no more college loans, no more costs for anything, nothing, not -- Youre not going to pay for anything. I mean, hes desperate now. Hes desperate. You dont have to pay for anything.
You know, I joked, I said, and everybody will get a free Rolls-Royce. Every family gets a free Rolls-Royce, every family. And the media said Donald Trump is exaggerating. He knows that theyre not getting a Rolls-Royce, Im sorry. Im sorry, Im sorry. Dont put it. Dont put it. Dont put it. Dont put that I said free Rolls-Royce.
No, but Bernies desperate now. I watched him up there. Its a sad situation. But I think theyre all sad when you get right down to it. For instance, OK, were in this incredible state, North Carolina. You have your best economy that youve ever had. Forget the country for a second. You have the best economy youve ever had.
You have your best unemployment numbers. You have the most people working than at any time in the history of your state. You have your best black unemployment numbers, best Hispanic unemployment numbers, best women unemployment numbers, best Asian unemployment numbers. OK. OK. Alright. So -- so whats my -- whoever the opponent is, what are they going to do say North Carolina, Im going to do a great job.
You have the best numbers in the history of our country in your state. So I dont know. And we won by a lot. And we won by a lot. You know, I was telling Mike, I was telling my son, Eric Trump, and Laras here, by the way who was born in North Carolina, oh, they do a good job. Lara, do you love this state?
And her brothers here. I have -- I have to tell you, he went to this college and Brad Parscale is here, the worlds tallest campaign manager in the history of the world. Hes the tallest in the history -- but most importantly, hes the best. Worlds tallest manager, but hes the best manager. Thank you, Brad.
Great job. And he just told me, our poll numbers are through the roof. He just told me that, so Ill take that. I mean, we are a year and a half away, but were doing well. Youll see it. Youd know. Youd be the first to know. No. 1, you wouldnt be here. You wouldnt be here. We havent had an empty seat in any event, I dont believe, that weve ever been to. I dont think, weve ever had -- weve always had people -- we havent had an empty seat.
You look, I mean, anywhere in North Carolina, Ohio, no matter where we go, we pack it. And we have thousands and thousands of people and we put screens outside and tonights not so good. Weve got 100 degrees out, but you still have thousands of people out there. We could have sold this arena out. You know that.
We could have sold this arena out tonight 10 times. Can you believe that? Ten times. Which I think thats like a poll. Right? Thats like a poll, cause when Biden goes out, I see sleepy Joe. He says they had 115 people show up, 115 people. Thats our first row. Thats our first row. The Democrat record on health care is one of deception and destruction.
The last administration said a lie. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor 28 times, a total lie. My administration is defending your sacred right to choose the doctor and the plan that you want, and we are offering plans up to 60% cheaper than Obamacare.
And a lot of people are starting to figure that out, better health care. I will also always protect peace. You have to remember this, are you ready? Because they give us a bum rap. Patients with pre-existing conditions are protected by Republicans much more so than protected by Democrats who will never be able to pull it off, pre-existing conditions.
And you know the job weve done on health care, its not talked about, but were also doing something. Its been phenomenal. We have 180 million people right now, really happy on private plans. And you know what? Theyre going to be taken away. Under the Democrats plan, all of those people that are thrilled when they went out and negotiated across state lines, all of the things they did, they went out negotiated great private plans are still going to be taken away from you under this plan.
Now, I only hope they dont change, because you know were talking too soon. Weve got a year and a half left. Its like when I called Pocahontas, Pocahontas. I should have waited six years because she then went out and got that test, 1024th. And Ive always said, I have more Indian blood in me than she has in her and I have none.
I have none. But its more than she has, 1024. But I brought it up too soon, so I dont talk about any more. But if she should be the candidate, which I tend to doubt, but if she should be, well bring it up again and I think itll be very successful, 1024. How about this? I was driving her crazy, so she went out and hired a guy to check the blood.
Im sure he had a lot of fun doing that. He checked her blood and found out that many, many, many, many, many, many years ago, there could have been somebody. And he could have been Indian. And then the Indians got together, and they said, "We dont want her. We dont we want here. We want Trump. We want Trump.
They want Trump." Theyve taken historic action. So weve taken historic action to fight the opioid epidemic, what a problem. And just today, it was just announced before I came in, that drug overdose deaths, were working so hard on this, including our Vice President, including our first lady, including everybody in the Trump administration, its dropped for the first time in more than 30 years.
Its gone down. First time. And in North Carolina, were far from finished. Its a big problem. It declined 8% last year. Thats a lot, because it was just going up like a rocket. Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mothers womb, right up until the moment of birth.
Well, then, you have the gentleman from our governor from Virginia, so were talking about late term. Hes talking about the baby is born before the mother makes the decision. That was the first -- thats the first Ive heard of it. Thats the first most of you have heard of it. And then they pass legislation in various states saying thats OK. This is a baby thats born.
This is late term. This is a baby thats born. Nobodys ever heard anything like that. Nobodys ever seen anything like it. Nobodys ever seen anything like it. And that actually, when he had the scandal, that became, can you believe it, the second biggest story? Can you believe that how important it is, and yet that was the second biggest story.
And what a shame when thats the second biggest story. What happened to our values? Republicans believe that every life is a sacred gift of God, and thats why Ive asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion of babies. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, intolerance and division.
The Republican Party is the party for all Americans and American values. We are the party of the American worker, the American family, and we are the party of the American dream. This is the proud banner of the Republican Party will carry into the Republican National Convention next summer in the great city of Charlotte, North Carolina.
Dont disappoint me. That should be good for at least 10 points, right? These are some of the greatest ladies. I see them in Ohio and Florida. We love you too. Thank you, really. How many have you been to? Just out of -- Whats the number? All but two? Ive done hundreds of them. And then they say women dont like Trump.
I think they do. You know, I see them, theyre great. Great ladies. Youre great. You know its interesting with women, so women want to have strong military protection. They want to have strong borders. They want to have strong law enforcement. They want to have great education. They want to have low taxes for their family, not high taxes.
They want to have all the things that we talk about. Why wouldnt they want Trump more than anybody else? The other side is gonna go on the other side. And they in the last election and were doing a lot better. You know the difference is, the last election, I was a successful businessman running for President, I said I was going to do things and by the way really successful.
Im gonna show you something someday soon. Im going to show you something. You know they say he was really successful. He wasnt successful. Hes really smart. Hes really stupid, but hes trying to take over the world. You know, they have so many messages. Hes really stupid. Then next week, Donald Trump has a sinister plot to take over the world.
You cant be too stupid, because they actually think its working. Right? I saw one of these so-called comedians the other day, and hes, you know, a pretty respected comedian. He said hes not leaving. Im telling you hes not leaving, hell never leave. Hell win this election, and in 24, Im telling you hes not leaving.
Hes going to stay. So we did, through our friend, Dan Scavino, we did a Time magazine cover. I was on so many Times. I dont even read this thing. And it says Trump 2014-2018. Right? But it says 20 -- Heres where we go. We started 16. We go to 20. We go to 24. Did you see it? Then it says? 28, 32, 36, 40, 43. No, we dont need any more time.
We dont need any more time. We need one more. Senator came to my office, "Sir, Im 67. Im great. Im 67, sir. I can give you great advice." I said, "Senator, Im one for one, but it happened to be the President. And now I want to be two for two, two for two." Two for two. So we have 16, we have 20, we have 24. And you know, its very interesting though, they were really people out there think Im not leaving.
Can you believe it? Hey, maybe that is a good idea. Lets think about it. What you want to drive them crazy? Theyre going to go crazy. All I have to do is say, lets think about it. Theyre going to go crazy. No, no. I promise -- I promise 2024, I leave. By that time -- just so you know, by that time, our country will be so well-seeded, it will be so strong like never ever in our history.
But everything that weve built, low taxes, strong military, taking care of our vets, all of the things weve done can be decimated very quickly if the wrong person gets in, especially now -- You know, Ive always said 2016 was the most important election, maybe in the history of our country. A lot of people thought that.
So I dont know. I cant say this is more important. What we did was a miracle. Not to us, it wasnt. But a lot of people said it was the greatest election weve ever had. Theres never been anything like it. Never been such exciting, never been such exciting. But you know what? If we dont win in 2020, everything that weve done -- seriously, though, everything that weve done, your 401s, theyre going to crash, the whole thing its going to come down like a stack of cards.
So in a certain way, lets say this is of equal importance. By that time, well have values instilled. Well have free enterprise instilled. People are working now, we have the lowest food stamps that weve had in many years, lowest food stamp because people are working. So I really think its, you know, at least equal, its equal, maybe its a little less, who the hell knows.
I just know this, it can disappear very, very quickly. We have to get out, we have to vote. Thats why Im starting early, I mean we -- Can you believe it? We have less -- I mean, I see all these clowns on television, so I guess we have to counteract them a little bit. But this is not what you want. Right?
None of them. This is not what you want running this incredible country of ours. Every day, we make good on the motto promises made, promises kept. Ive had people back there. Ive had people back there that dont like me, and somebody said very nicely that hes actually made certain promises and hes actually kept more promises than hes made.
Its true. I mean, Ive done things -- Ive done things that I never -- I never said we were going to get as an example with our vets, that were going to get Choice, that we were going to have the ability to fire people that dont treat our vets properly. OK. We can fire them now. Theyve been trying to get that for 44 years, Choice said been trying to get practically from the beginning, Choice so simple, and yet they never got it. Nobody got it through.
Were good at getting things through. Weve done more than we said we would. And a man I know, who I dont like, a businessman very, very, very successful businessman, one of the most successful. But I dont like him, never liked him. He never liked me either by the way. In fact, I would go a step further.
He couldnt stand me. And I saw him about two months ago, and he came up to me. I said how you doing? Very warm. You know, hey. How you doing? Lets get out of here. And he said Im doing good, youre doing good. I said, yeah. I said, you know, you dont like me and I dont like you. I never have liked you and you never have liked me, but youre going to support me because youre a rich guy.
And if you dont support me, youre going to be so goddamn poor youre not going to be . And he said to me, Mr. President, you know, he calls me Mr. President. Everyone calls me Mr. President. Its true. Its a funny thing. He said, Mr. President, youre right, Im supporting you. I think youre doing a great job.
And maybe we didnt get along, but its not like he has a choice, he has a choice. And on top of that, its a good choice, because weve done the right thing. And it is funny, you know, with the name. Mr. President. I have friends, really good friends, and theyve always called me Don, Donald, D.J. They call me anything and you lose all your friends when youre president, because theyre all afraid to talk to you.
Does that make sense? No, its true, except -- except for these six, seven ladies up here. They always talk. Theyre not intimidated. No, its true. I have guys, I have wonderful friends, New York developers, tough guys, smart guys, theyre rich, theyre this, that. I have middle of the road, I have poor.
I have everybody. I have poor guys, middle of the road, I have rich guys. Doesnt matter. Rich guys call up, "Mr. President, how are you, sir? Oh, its Richard." "Oh good, Rich, Hey Richard, loosen up. This is a guy who used to, "Hey, Don. How are you doing? Lets go to dinner." Now, hes, "Sir, is everything doing good, sir?" I said, "Richard, call me Donald like you always did.
Call me Donald. Always call me Donald." "OK. Thank you, Donald. Thank you very much." Then two minutes later, "Mr. President, its been so great." I lost all my friends. Theyve tightened up. Theyve choked. You know what that is? Theyve choked. They cant breathe because people have such respect for the office of the president.
They have respect for the office of the president. They have respect for our country again. Our country Is respected again. Weve confirmed more than 125 federal judges to apply the law as written, including two Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. Weve launched a historic initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs.
And last year, this is -- Im so proud of this, because we have no help from the Democrats. Last year, for the first time in over 50 years, drug prices went down. And that was for a reason, to give former prisoners a second chance at life. We passed groundbreaking criminal justice reform. Its a big thing.
You know, prisoners, theyve gone out of jail and Theyve never had an economy like this, and we did a lot of things because they get out of jail, they dont have a chance. They always go back most of the time. Now, theyre coming out and we have programs. But most of all, we have this great economy where people are hiring prisoners and you have to see the reviews theyre getting.
Theyre getting phenomenal reviews. Its a beautiful thing. Its a beautiful thing whats happening with prisoners. They get out and they can actually get a job and thats whats happening. Were very proud of it. Were expanding opportunity zones so that no American is left behind. Its one of the great successes, the opportunity zones.
Nobody talks about. Its what are the great successes. And thanks to our pledge to Americas workers, private sector partners will provide apprenticeships and job training to 9 million Americans. Isnt that nice? And whenever I hear that word apprentice, I say I love that word. That was a good show. They figured, you know what well do, well get Arnold Schwarzenegger to take my place.
That didnt work out too well. That didnt work out too well. We had 14 seasons, think of that, The Apprentice. Ive proudly signed for bipartisan human trafficking laws, securing $400 million to support victims of human trafficking, and we have secured, soon to be three years, record funding for our military.
We want to cut budgets, but this is beyond budgets. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided, disgusting Iran nuclear deal and Iran is a different country Today. My administration proudly recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. That was some day, they all said many, many presidents have said were going to do. Then they never did.
I know why, because the pressure on them was enormous not to do it. And then on top of it, a couple of months ago, I just approved the Golan Heights for Israel, the Golan Heights. Another thing, 52 years they tried to do that, they didnt get It done. So were doing good. We also recognized the legitimate government of Venezuela and we condemn those that want to stop freedom in that country and other countries.
Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country, will never ever be a socialist country. It just wont happen. A vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of the American dream, frankly, the destruction of our country. Thats whats going to happen.
Take a look around. Their party is afflicted with an ideological sickness that protects foreign borders, but refuses to protect our own borders. Think of it. They fight all over the world. A lot of those people are coming back home. Folks, theyre coming back home a lot. We defeated ISIS, you know the caliphate in Syria.
Were bringing our soldiers back home. ISIS does not like me too much, but I came here. It was a mess. It was a mess. And I met with generals. General -- believe it or not, one general, his name is Raisin. I said, "Whats your name?" "Sir." This guys like out of a movie. "Sir." Well, hes gonna be famous after this, but who cares.
Whats your name? He goes, "Sir, my name is Raisin." I said, "Raisin? Like you mean a little raisin?" "Yes, sir. Its my name. Thats what they call me." "Whats your last name?" "Cane." I said, "You mean your name is Raisin Cane? Youve got to be." I said, "Raisin Cane? Youre my kind of general. Let me talk to you, Raisin Cane.
Get over here." And my previous generals said its going to be a long time before we take out the caliphate. I said to Raisin Cane and a couple of other generals that were there, "These guys are central casting like from a movie, except better. Theyre stronger, bigger, tougher, meaner and actually better looking in a certain way." But theyre like from a movie, theres nobody in Hollywood plays a role like this.
I said, "Generals, Ive been told its going to take a year, two years to get 100%." Remember I want to pull them out, were down to 1%. Everyone went crazy like that one, but they said its could take a long time. I said to Raisin Cane and the other generals, "Generals, how long can it take?" They said, "Sir, one month." I said, "What?" "Were going to hit them from the front.
Were going to hit them from the back. Were going to hit them from the side, sir. Were going to hit him like they never got hit before. We were never allowed to do this, sir." "And were not just going to hit them from our temporary base in Syria, sir. Were going to hit them from Iraq. Were going to hit them from places that they never knew existed, sir.
Theyll be hit so goddamn hard, sir. They will be -- Thank you very much." Very shortly, very, very shortly, it was over. We had 100% of the caliphate and these people were screwing around for years. Obama, President Obama, my generals did a great job. I flew there. I flew to Iraq, remember? Im an Air Force One.
And they notified me, "Sir, were 45 minutes out, sir. We have to close all windows. We have to turn off all lights in the plane, sir. All windows, all lights, have to be off, sir. Were turning off the lights outside and the runway lights, sir. Theyre going to be in a very dim..." Frankly, if youre not a 30-year-old pilot, you cant See anything.
I said, "I dont see any light, pilot. " As were landing, I said, "I dont see." And then I thought to myself think of it. Weve spent almost $8 trillion in the Middle East and we got to turn off the lights of an airplane to land. How bad is that? They didnt do their job. We did our job and the military did their job.
But we fight to sort of just keep going. We dont fight to win. I fight to win. I fight to win. So were landing his big, beautiful Air Force One and Im saying, "Major, I dont see a runway." "Yes, sir. Its right up ahead." You know, guys 30 years old or something. He says, theyll get me in that. They said maybe hes 35, whatever he is. Theyre saying, "Yes, sir.
Its right..." "I dont see it, major. How about lifting up? Lets go around." Thats the last thing we want to do in that part of the world. He said, "Sir, its right there, sir." And were landing, and I still havent seen a light. But these guys, we have the greatest pilots in the world, we have the greatest military in the world, we have the greatest equipment in the world In the world, in the world.
So you must never forget, the 2020 election is all about one thing, you. Its about you. Its about your family. Its about your future and the fate of your beautiful, loving country. And thats what it is. We begin our North Carolina campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda and the only positive vision for our nations future.
We love our nation. Our nation is great today. Its going to be much greater. Every year, its getting better and better. We have turned this big, beautiful, mighty ship. We have turned it around. Its getting better, better, better. Together, we will continue unleashing the power of American enterprise, so every American can know the dignity of work and the pride of a paycheck.
With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress, those great gentlemen that just left us there. To create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration, we will enact trade deals and they are going like you wont even believe. That doesnt mean the other countries are thrilled with me. There was a recent poll.
Germany likes Obama better than Trump, a lot better. I said, of course, because Im making them pay their bills. Im saying you got to pay. I say Angela, Angela. You got to pay, Angela. Obama would go and make a speech leave. I go and make a speech. I say let me speak to Angela. Angela, you got to pay your bills.
You were behind. So I would think that they should. They should all like him. When you hear they like me better, Im not doing my job. Im not doing my job. They did a poll on one of these networks, and there was a Donald Trump is not liked in Europe nearly as much as President Obama. I said -- or President Bush or anybody or anybody.
In fact, Im just like -- but actually they respect us. Thats more important -- look at that beautiful baby. Look at that beautiful baby. Wow, what a baby. What a baby. That is a beautiful baby. Its like from an advertisement, perfect. Look how happy that baby is. So beautiful. Thank you, darling. Thats really nice.
Its a great thing. Is that your husband? Thats a great thing. Thank you. Congratulations, husband. Man, what a picture. Well, were going to have the country all set for your child. OK? Because thats what its about. Now the media will say, thats a prop. Theyll say no baby is so beautiful. That had to be a setup.
I never saw that guy in my life, which is true. Thank you. Good luck. Thank you very much. We will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with those four beautiful words Made in America, Made in the USA. Either one is OK with me. Keep America Great. Thats right. We will give school choice to millions of underserved children who are trapped in failing government schools.
We will defend privacy, free speech, religious liberty, and the right to keep and bear arms. Theyre going to take your guns away. And above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one great nation, as one America, as one America. We believe in the American Constitution and we believe in the rule of law.
We believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children, like your child, should be taught to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we live by the words of our national motto, In God, We Trust.
We are fighting for every American mom and dad who wants to protect this land of liberty for their precious children. We have been blessed with the greatest republic on the face of the earth. But it was going in the wrong direction, and now we are turning it around. It is going better than ever before, and were going to keep it that way.
Were going to keep it that way. With your help, with your devotion, with your drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning. We are one movement, one movement. Think of that. We are one big, beautiful movement. There has never been a movement like it. They dont hear it that often.
They know it. But you know here in the history of our country, there has never been a movement like this. And this movement is stronger now than it was three years ago. This is the strongest movement in the history of our country. But we are -- were one movement, we are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.
Were doing things that nobody thought was possible. No other nation thought it was possible what were doing. We are so respected. You have no idea how our nation has gone so far up in the eyes and the minds of the rest of the world, so respected. Because together, we will make America wealthy again. Of course, we did just hit the highest price in the history of the market.
So pretty soon, I hate to say, I dont want to ruin the rhetorical skill, but that is sort of like getting a little obsolete. We will make our nation wealthy again. The fact is, we have the strongest stock market in our history. So I think I have to change it. Youve all heard it many times. Right? We will make America wealthy again.
Were gonna have to say we have made America wealthy again. So heres one, we will make America strong again. No, no, were gonna have to change this. We have made America stronger. And just so you know, we have made America great again, right? We have made America great. We will make. You know the story.
Keep America Great. Its fairly -- You know, look, how do you give up MAGA? How do you give up MAGA? Make America great again, but weve done that. Can you imagine if keep America great didnt work? I had the greatest phrase, probably in the history of politics in this country. Look at her beautiful hat.
Looks very good on you. But look at this -- look at this beautiful hat. But you know make America great again, but weve done that. So were going to keep it around, because I cannot just out of my heart, the love of that expression, that phrase, its a great phrase, but our new phrase for the 2020 campaign is keep America great.
