Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Toledo, OH|October 27, 2016
Wow, what a nice group. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What a nice group.
Thats a big group! Were having some awfully big groups. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.
In 12 days we are going to win Ohio and we are going to win back the White House, believe me.
A brand-new poll just came out. Remington Research has us up 4 points in Ohio.
Early voting is underway, so make sure you get out and vote, right? This is amazing. All, no matter where we go, we have these massive crowds. We just left one that was 11,000. Were just -- its been amazing, the receptivity. Theres never been anything like this in this country, but you have to get out and vote because otherwise all wasted.
Were going to win, were going to win big. I think were going to win a lot bigger than people even understand. You know what I mean, a lot bigger.
Were tired of stupidity and were tired of incompetence and were going to run it properly and thats what we want. We want to make America great again, folks. Its very simple.
Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track. Who are the other 25, just out of curiosity? Who are the 25 percent? Were going to fix it and were going to get our country back on the right track.
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare." ""eal change begins with"
What a mess. It never worked from day one, it was never destined to work. There was no way it was ever going to work. And I said before they voted, I said thats never going to work. It has just been announced that Americans are going to experience a massive double-digit hike in Obamacare" premiums
Just so you understand, Hillary Clinton is going to double-down, double-up, she wants that thing. Shes going to spend so much money, but youre going to spend more money. Youre right. Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare" is the craziest thing in the world
Job-killing Obamacare" is just one more way the system is rigged. Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on "Obamacare
Just this year, crooked Hillary declared that Obamacare" is one of the greatest accomplishment of President Obama
Can you imagine? Im just standing here saying, can you believe this? Can you imagine if thats one of your greatest accomplishments as president and its a disaster? And by the way, were going to repeal it, but its going to die of its own weight. It cant make it anywhere. The insurance companies are all leaving, theyre fleeing. Here in Ohio, another five insurance companies are dropping out of Obamacare." Youll have nobody to negotiate with
Its a catastrophic situation beyond imagination. Repealing Obamacare" is one of the single-most important reasons we must win on November 8th. She wants to keep it. ""ts a catastrophic situation beyond imagination. Repealing "Obamacare" is one of the single-most important reasons w""s a catastrophic situation beyond imagination. Repealin"
She wants to keep it. Were going to repeal it, were going to have a really great plan thats going to cost much less and be much better.
Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington.
Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 emails, lied to Congress under oath, made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer, and then told the FBI she couldnt remember, 39 times.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
The Clinton crew gave more than $675,000 to the wife of the deputy FBI director overseeing the investigation into Hillarys illegal server. We need to reopen the investigation.
Information came out today just a little while ago thats more devastating than anything youve seen so far. WikiLeaks, more information, but it pertains to what they knew and it makes all of them -- theyre already liars, but it confirms it for the 75th time. Hillary Clinton put the office of secretary of state up for sale, and if she got the chance shed put the Oval Office up for sale also.
I propose a contract with the American voter that will end the corruption and give the government back to the people.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment -- and you know, Ive been on that side, just so you understand. Life was a lot easier on that side. I didnt have to do this, but the day I announced...
Thank you.
...June -- youre welcome, youre welcome.
Youre welcome. We had to do the right thing. The Washington establishment to hear and heed the words Im about to say. If we win on November 8th...
When!
OK, OK, you ready? When we win...
Theres a lot of good energy in Ohio, that I can tell you. You know, I worked here very early in my career, like, the earliest, one of the first jobs Ive ever done. I worked in Cincinnati. And it was a great success and it gave me that confidence, you know, I had a success and it was confidence. And I love Ohio, always have.
So when we win, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.
You know, that phrase started about a week ago and I thought it was terrible. I didnt like it at all. I said, I dont know, I just dont like it. And now its become one of the hottest phrases anywhere in the world and Im saying I like it. Thats like, did you ever see the great singers, Frank Sinatra? Some of his greatest hits he didnt like them, but at the end he liked them very much, right? This is what happened with drain the swamp
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.
Were living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. So true. Ohio has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by crooked Hillary.
Remember...
Whos the one that said that? Thats excellent. This guys screaming out slick Willy." ""hos the one that said t"
Its true. Its true. Thats right. Supported strongly by slick Willy, I think Ill make that a...
Remember, every time you see a closed factory -- and before I get into this, this is too depressing, is this the most fun youll ever have, right? Right? Being at a Trump rally.
Being at a Trump rally, theres nothing better. All right, now lets get back to the closed factories, OK?
But every time you see a closed factory, a wiped out community here in Ohio, the Clintons were really involved because NAFTA has been such a disaster. And he signed it. New Mather Metals closed its factory in Toledo and laid off 168 workers and shipped their jobs to Mexico, 2010.
Textileather Corporation closed their Toledo factory and laid off 160 workers and moved their jobs to China and Canada in 2009.
Honeywell Autolites factory in Fostoria over the past 16 years has laid off and moved at least 900 jobs to Mexico.
Employees at Dixon Ticonderoga...
Dixon Ticonderoga, right? Is that the name? Who the hell cares, theyre gone. I mean, who cares? Maybe well get them back. Should we try getting them back?
See, now with me they wouldnt be able to leave, because whatever the hell they make, when they go to Mexico and they make their product and they want to send it back over the border and they leave us with closed plants and unemployment and Mexico gets the cash, the employment, the factories, everything, what happens is they make their product, they want to send it across, I say, no, thank you, its a 35 percent tax to get your product. Right?
Right? Thirty-five percent tax. And you know whats going to happen? If I do it early enough, theyre not leaving, theyre not leaving. Theyre not going to leave. And if they do leave, we make a lot of money as a country, thats OK. But nobodys leaving. Thirty- five percent, go ahead, leave, well enjoy it very much.
Weve lost, and I say this all the time, because its hard to believe, 70,000 factories. I thought it was a typo. I thought it was 700 or 7,000, its 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster.
Under my contract, if a company wants to fire their workers, move to Mexico or other countries and ship their products back into the United States, as I said, we will put a 35 percent tax or tariff on those products and they will not leave.
Theyre not going to leave. Now, the politicians knew this, some of them did. Some of them probably dont because they dont have any basic understanding of the way the system works. But a lot of them knew this, but theyre controlled by special interests.
You know, Ill have over $100 million invested in this campaign...
Thank you!
...meaning -- oh, you know, if I dont win I will consider that -- some of these dishonest people back here, and they are among the worlds most dishonest...
...they are disgusting. They are among the worlds most dishonest people. But believe it or not, some of them, they said this, what we have all done together, is one of the great political phenomena. Some, Bill OReilly, said this is the single-greatest political phenomena that hes ever witnessed, right?
Right? But Ill tell you what. Ill be in for over $100 million and a lot of work, a lot of energy. And they were saying it doesnt matter, what youve done will go down in the record books in history, because, you know, lets face it, when we started with 17 people I wasnt exactly favored to win, right? The only people that thought I was going to win were the people that knew me, right? I have friends that went and placed bets. They said anytime I can place a bet, 3 percent on Trump, I will -- I have one friend made a lot of money.
But you know what? One by one they disappeared. And now were down to one person whos got low energy, very low energy. She goes to sleep. So, look, heres the story. Who is more low energy? Bill OReilly just asked me. I just did Bill OReilly, hes on tonight. He said, who is more low energy, Jeb Bush or Hillary Clinton?
He just asked me that question. Whats the answer? Who? Who? Whos more low energy? I dont know. Hey, and you know what I say? It doesnt matter.
Ohio is at the center of American motor vehicles and the industry is really suffering in terms of production. According to the state development, almost 75 percent of all light vehicles produced in North America are made in Ohio or within 500 miles of this great state. The auto industry and its feeder industries account for over 10 percent of Ohios economy. Seventy-five of Ohios 88 counties have at least one automotive industry business. Nearly one in eight Ohio residents are either directly or indirectly employed by the auto industry.
Hillary Clinton supported and lobbied for the South Korea trade agreement, you know that one, thats been another disaster, on the promise of 75,000 new jobs. Instead, her trade deal destroyed 100,000 jobs mostly in the auto industry. And believe me, as you stand here today, your executives are negotiating deals to move businesses out of Ohio and into Mexico and other countries, because we have nobody to protect our companies and really nobody to protect our workers.
Weve got you!
Next -- you got me, you got me. Believe me, Ill protect you.
Hillary wants the Trans-Pacific Partnership which will kill the rest of our auto jobs and kill jobs generally speaking in this country. Wont be -- heres the good news. It will never be as bad as NAFTA. You never thought Id say that. NAFTA is the all-time king. There will never be anything like it.
First of all, it was defective the day it was done. You know, its a different tax system. Theirs is a VAT tax system. Right?
Oh, look, theres a person clapping because theres only one person who understands in this whole audience, right? You know what Im saying. Its a VAT tax system. So before we even start, if we go in or they come out, were 17 percent behind, their tax is almost 17 percent. So were 17. So it was a defective agreement for many years and nobody ever fixed it. So they had this huge advantage for many years because of the tax system.
I will stop Trans-Pacific Partnership and I will bring the auto jobs back to America and keep your remaining auto jobs in Ohio.
Believe me. Nobodys leaving. They may leave for a different state, dont get angry at me, but weve got to keep them in our country. We love our country, right?
We will immediately begin renegotiating NAFTA, that disaster. And if we dont get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal. All right? Believe me.
You know, folks, this has got to be a two-way street, right? You know, you want some coming this way, the problem is its a one-way highway right out.
As part of our plan to bring back American jobs, we will lower taxes on our businesses from 35 percent down to 15 percent. Well go from the highest to among the lowest.
Hillary Clinton wants to raise taxes on small business up to 45 percent.
What a difference. You know, what a difference this is. Im just thinking to myself right now, we should just cancel the election and just give it to Trump, right? What we even having with them? What are we having with them?
Her policies are so bad. Boy, do we have a big difference. Hillary also says she wants to put coal miners out of work. Not going to happen.
Stop producing shale energy in most places and place a permanent moratorium on energy development on federal lands where vast coal and shale energy and other forms of energy are located.
My administration will unleash all sources of American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas, renewables and clean coal. And were putting the miners back to work.
We will put out miners back to work and we will put our steelworkers who are under siege back to work.
We will become a rich nation once again.
A woman came up to me three months ago, she said, Mr. Trump, I love you, Im going to vote for you, she said, but youre making a terrible mistake when you talk about making our country rich again, it doesnt sound good. I said, to me it sounds good. Why? She explained, and I understand.
You know, in this world of politically correct, youre going to be rich again, were going to make a rich country again, we need to be a rich country again. If were going to do what we have to do in terms of infrastructure, which is a disaster -- you know, weve spent $6 trillion in the Middle East. We could have rebuilt our country twice. And we are now in far worse shape in the Middle East than if our presidents just went to the beach every day, right?
Or in the case of Obama, went golfing every day instead of every- other day, right? See, the problem is he went every-other day, so, therefore, the day he stayed in the White House was not good.
And what about this? What about a guy whos constantly campaigning for crooked Hillary, thats all he does, right? Thats all he does.
He campaigns -- this guy ought to be in the White House working on jobs, working on our military, working on defeating ISIS.
What a terrible situation. But to be a rich country, we also must be a safe country. Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS onto the world. The vacuum was created and it spread into the United States. There are now 1,000 open ISIS investigations in the United States. ISIS is on a campaign of genocide against Christians in the Middle East or what they call the nation of the cross. Thats what they call, the nation of the cross. Think of that. Think of that. Thats the term they have for Christians.

And people -- who said that over there? Let me see. Who said it? Whos the guy? Dont worry, theyre going to be -- Ill tell you, they are dreaming of having her win. Do you ever notice, she says were going to work on the tax code, were going to work on ISIS, were going to work on this. Shes been there for 30 years. Whats she been doing, right? Whats she been doing?
ISIS is dreaming of her becoming president, that I can tell you. Theyre crucifying, drowning and beheading their victims. Not since Medieval times have we seen whats happening. Have you ever thought youd see this? Theyre throwing people off buildings and hanging their victims from meat hooks.
The New York Post just published reports about ISIS crushing children to death and burning adults alive. This is what we have. This is what has been unleashed. Now Hillary wants massive immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world where ISIS operates, including a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees entering our country over and above the thousands and thousands already coming here under Obama.
A Trump administration is going to suspend immigration from terror-prone regions and we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.
And you know what? Were working, well build safe zones in Syria, well do things, well get the Gulf states to put in the money because our country has no money. We owe $20 trillion, doubled-up under Obama. And yet, our roads are no good and our tunnels and our hospitals and our bridges and our schools. So we owe all this money and, you know, Id like to say if we owed the money and were in tippy-top shape, right, tippy-top, but were not in tippy-top, were in terrible shape. Pretty sad, pretty sad.
Let me state this as clearly as I can. If Im elected president, I am going to keep radical Islam...
When!
When Im elected president...
...better get out and vote -- Im going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Believe me, believe me.
Hillary also said she wants totally open borders, meaning you dont have a country anymore.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
And yes, we will build a wall.
A real wall. This will be a real wall and Mexico will pay for the wall.
Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. And by the way, the Border Patrol agents and ICE both endorsed me, endorsed me, first time theyve ever endorsed a candidate for president.
Right here in Ohio, 60-year-old Margaret Kostelnik was murdered in cold blood by an illegal immigrant. Earlier that day, her killer shot another woman in the arm while she was with her children in a nearby park. Police encountered the man more than three weeks before the crime spree, but federal authorities under Obama refused to take him into custody.
People that knew this thug were begging -- were begging -- that he be incarcerated he was so dangerous.
Drain the swamp!
Nothing was done. Then there was the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, a Minnesota farmer, who was brutally beaten by illegal immigrants and left to bleed to death in his own house. Earls body was found with his hands bound behind his back in duct tape and blunt force injuries to his head. His killers had criminal records a mile long, but they did not meet the Obama administrations priority for removal.
Send them back!
Then you had the recent case of 800 people, tough ones, who were going to be deported. You saw that three weeks ago, right? They were going to be deported. Now, you know if theyre going to be deported from our country theyve got to be trouble. What happened is there was a mistake made and instead of deporting them, congratulations everybody, they became United States citizens.
And there was a mistake made. Instead of 800, I have a little bad news for you, instead of 800 it was close to 1,800 people. So they became.
So I then said very strongly, then undo the error, undo the error. And they said we cant do that, it would not be constitutional. Can you believe this? Can you believe this?
Right? I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers and the gang members, when I win -- when, when, you understand me?
Your long reign of crime and terror will come to a crashing end. We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense cuts and rebuild our badly depleted military where we have our greatest people.
We will rebuild our Army, which is the smallest since World War II, and maybe we need it more than ever before, almost ever before. Weve had some other pretty bad times, too. But we need strength. Peace through strength, right?
New orders for equipment for our troops will need to come to places like Lima, Ohio, home of -- I like Lima better, what do you like?
Home of the Abrams tank. Is that the best tank in the world? Is it?
Is it the best?
Yes!
And we will change our foreign policy. Hillary Clintons policies in Iraq, in Syria, in Libya threw the Middle East into turmoil. Now Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria, in conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia, which could very well lead to World War III. And you see the way she talks about Putin. I mean, no wonder Putin doesnt like her and has no respect for her. You know, theyre nuclear-armed. Its all right, it would be nice if we got along, we dont, we dont, but it would be nice. But how can he get along with her? How can he get along with her? Hes got no respect for her, number one. And the way she talks, this is ridiculous.
Ill tell you what, honestly if we could have a good relationship with Russia, that would be a good thing, not a bad thing. I mean, I hate to say it, it would be a good thing.
I dont know that that will happen, but it would be a good thing. One thing, Ill figure it out real fast. You understand that, right? Ill figure it out real fast.
To all Americans, I say its time for new leadership. We have to have new leadership.
We cannot have another four years of Barack Obama, cannot. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days. Were going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.
Were going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation, provide school choice and put an end to Common Core, bring your education home.
Were going to rebuild our military and take care of our great, great veterans. They have not been taken care of.
We will support the wonderful men and women of law enforcement...
...save the Second Amendment which is under siege and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have to defer their dreams to another day, but really you and I know its another decade or many decades away. Its like our politics are caught in a total time loop. We keep electing the same people over and over again who keep making the same mistakes and who keep offering the same old, tired excuses.
These career politicians keep telling us that things cant change, that we cant try new solutions. Not only try, the new solutions are common sense, so simple. I mean, keeping our jobs, thats going to work, folks, let me tell you. Its amazing, its amazing that its gone this long. But again, the special interests, the donors, they control the politicians. But I have a message for them. The future belongs to the dreamers, not the cynics and not the critics.
Im asking all Americans to join me in dreaming big like we used to in this country, big and bold for our future. Im going to fight for every American of every background in every stretch of this nation. Im going to fight for every mother who has lost her child to illegal immigration or drugs or gang violence. I am going to fight for every community in Ohio, in Michigan, in Pennsylvania and all around this nation whose jobs have been ripped out and shipped to other countries because we have people that are not capable of properly representing us.
Its so sad, so easy and so sad.
Im going to fight for every citizen who believe that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.
And Im going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. Were living in a divided country. Its not going to be divided. Were going to love everybody like we love the people in this room.
Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag. Think about that.
Once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people.
And were going to work on -- our ghettos are in -- you take a look at whats going on where you have pockets of areas of land where you have the inner cities and you have so many things, so many problems, so many horrible, horrible problems. The violence, the death, the lack of education, no jobs. Were going to work with the African-American community and were going to solve the problem of the inner city. Were going to solve the problem.
Were going to solve the problem. Were going to bring back jobs to the inner cities. Were going to bring proper education, including school choice. And were going to bring safety back. Were going to bring safety back. You cant walk out the street, you buy a loaf of bread and you end up getting shot. So were going to work very strongly with the African-American community.
And remember this. The Democrats have been talking about this for years. I mean, 50, 80, 90, 100 unbroken. We are going to solve the educational problem, the crime problem and the jobs problem of the inner cities. And a lot of people are going to be very happy, going to finally happen. Theyve been talking. They want your vote, so they come in, they get your vote, and then they get your vote four years later and then they get your vote again. And at some point, people say thats enough. They only want your vote. Hillary wants your vote, thats all.
Together, we will make, all together, America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And guess what the last one is?
See all those beautiful caps? We will make America great again!
