Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Addresses the Republican Jewish Coalition in Las Vegas, Nevada|April 6, 2019
Shabbat, Shalom. Thank you. What a great day. Thank you, Norm, for that wonderful introduction and for your leadership of this truly tremendous organization. So many friends, I have so many friends out in the audience. Thank you very much for being here.  Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you very much.
Hes going back home to mommy and he will be reprimanded, he will be, right. She gets it. Im truly thrilled to be back with so many friends, supporters, patriots, at the annual conference of the Republican Jewish Coalition, which is now setting records. Records. Here today is someone who has been with us from the very beginning, a true fighter for our shared values, your terrific Executive Director Matt Brooks.
Thank you, Matt, thank you. Thank you, Matt. Also joining us are two great leaders. You know very well my good friends Sheldon and Miriam Adelson, great people. They like you both, Sheldon, its pretty good. Last year was my honor to award Miriam The Presidential Medal of Freedom. Thats a big deal. I also want to thank Senator Lindsey Graham, hes here, senator.
Wheres Lindsey? Senator Lindsey, great man, great friend, great friend of Israel. Thank you, Lindsey. A man who fights all the time for Israel and for everything else. Another great Senator David Perdue, Georgia. Senator Kevin Cramer. Wheres Kevin? Kevin, Kevin, Kevin. Thank you, Kevin. He fought a battle, you wouldnt believe it. He beats somebody by 11 points, that was unbeatable.
Thats pretty good, Kevin. I said, "You can do it." That was my only thing. I said, "You could do it." He won by a lot. He won by a lot, and hes a great gentleman and hes a big, big fan and supporter of Israel. As well as a really terrific leader, hes our leader, Kevin McCarthy. And we have representatives that are outstanding.
The great Billy Long. Wheres Billy? Billy? Billy Long. Denver Riggleman. Denver, thank you. Thank you, Denver. Michael Waltz. Thank you, Michael. Great job you do, Mike. And a very good friend of mine also, Lee Zeldin. And a special thanks to Representative Omar of Minnesota. Oh, oh, I forgot. She doesnt like Israel, I forgot, Im so sorry, oh. No, she doesnt like Israel, does she?
Oh, please, I apologize. A great friend of mine, one of the most successful men in the state, amazing guy, tremendous businessman, Mr. Phil Ruffin. Where is Phil? Phil? Thank you, Phil. A competitor of mine in Manhattan for a long time, always built great buildings, great architecture, was known for design and success, loves Israel, George Klein.
Thank you, George. Thank you, George. So many friends in Israel. Were also grateful to be joined by members of my administration, including Jason Greenblatt, and a young man named Jared Kushner. He is fighting for Israel. Thank you very much, great job. Peace in the Middle East. If they cant do it, nobody can.
David Friedman, your ambassador to Israel. He loves Israel, so an incredible job. Thank you, David. Finally, to every member of the Republican Jewish Coalition, thank you for your incredible support and your outstanding commitment to our country, to our safety, and to electing more Republicans. We need more Republicans, lets go so we can win everything.
Over the next 19 months, I know that the Republican Jewish Coalition will help lead our party to another historic victory. And by the way, we did very well at 18, you can ask David and Lindsey, we won the Senate. We took on two more. There were three or four that were very close, that werent supposed to be. All of a sudden that didnt happen and were going to talk about that, I think, when we get back to Washington.
But Ill tell you what, we picked up two Senate seats and now its 53 to 47. And we have 53 great senators, and when it comes to appointments, when it comes to the United States Supreme Court, when it comes To approving all of the judges way over a hundred judges, federal judges, you need the Senate, we did well.
They dont like to talk about that. They dont like. And I dont have enough time so many people in the house, but the people I went for, like in Kentucky, Matt Barr, hes -- he won. He was down and he won. We won so much. We won in Georgia, great Governor Brian Kemp. They had President Obama, they had Oprah, they had Michelle Obama.
They were going for their new star, their new star of the party, and I was going for Brian. All he had was Trump. You know what, Brian won. Brian won. And the governor of a great state, known as Ohio, you have a great governor. He was not expected to win. He campaigned brilliantly. We did some incredible rallies.
He won by almost seven points, he won easily. So Mike is great. And the governor of Florida. Governor of Florida. That was supposed to be a close race and was a tough race, but we won that one and Oklahoma, and many other places, we did so well. We get no credit, fake news, we get no credit. We get no credit, lets just keep winning.
Id rather have it that way they get too much credit and not win, that happens true to some people, doesnt happen to me. When I spoke to you as a candidate three years ago, Americas economy was stagnant. Our military was depleted and the relationship between the United States and Israel was at probably the lowest point in history.
How the hell did you support President Obama? How did you do? How did you do it? How do you support the Democrats with you guys . I think, probably most of the people in this room that, ah, you love Israel, but you know, you look at the Iran deal. You look at so much that was done so negatively.
Now, just three years later, I stand before you as the president of the United States to report on a very different situation under Republican leadership. Americas economy is the hottest anywhere in the world, and its not even close. Our military will soon be more powerful than ever before, $700 billion, $716 billion this year.
I dont know, David and Lindsey, I think, probably in the 750 to 725 range, have to do it. You dont have the military. You owe the stuff, doesnt matter, does it, huh? You dont have to worry about inflation. You dont have to worry about anything. You got to have a strong, strong military. Well have the strongest that weve ever had before.
And the incredible bond between the United States and Israel has never been stronger than it is right now. Americas thriving, Americas booming, and America is winning, winning, winning like never before. Were respected again, we are respected again. Its been a long time. Since the election, weve created more than 5.5 million new jobs, including 600,000 manufacturing jobs.
Things that nobody would have allowed me to say on the campaign trail. They would have said, "Oh, he exaggerates." After years of stagnation, wages are rising fast. Think of it, people had one job 21 years ago. They made more money in real dollars than they did two years ago, with three jobs, and two jobs, and now, for the first time, they have a choice, our economy so strong.
They can have a choice of jobs and wages are going up, first time in many, many years. And one of the things that makes me happiest, frankly, is that theyre going up most quickly for the lowest income Americans. Great. Great? Great. Our unemployment has reached the lowest level in more than 50 years and we will be breaking that record, I believe, pretty soon.
We slashed 30,000 pages of job killing regulations from the federal register, an all time record. It doesnt matter if they were there for four years or eight years or 10 years, in one instance. We really did something. We had -- take a look at FDR, all of those years, all of those years. Nobody slashed them like as yet a fourth-termer.
You have a lot of two-termers and in less than two years -- and I happen to believe that that was as important and maybe even more important than the largest tax cut in the history of our country. Thank you also. Were fixing broken trade deals, were working on a trade deal now with China, were doing very well, very well because of tariffs.
Were making a deal thats very good, youll, be happy if it happens, might not happen, but we have tremendous power. We have to tell our people that represent us in Washington that when countries -- Im not talking about China, Im talking about many countries. When theyre charging us 100% tax or tariff.
When theyre charging us 200 and 250 and 300%, and we charge them nothing, its OK to charge them something. Maybe you could explain that to some of your people that say, "Oh, we dont like tariffs." I mean, we have a case where a certain country, India, is charging us. Were a great country, a great friend, Prime Minister Modi charging us over a 100% for many things.
Were charging them nothing for similar or the same product, and I have senators that say you cant do that. Its not free trade. Where do they come from? Where do they come from? Its not free trade. I dont know. Wheres David? You got to work on this pretty well, David. You -- Wheres Lindsey? He used to work on that.
Its the craziest thing. Its stupid trade. We have so much stupid trade. We lost, for many years now, $800 billion a year on trade. Who the hell makes these deals? Youre, probably saying yourself. Those are not good negotiators. Actually, Democrats made a lot of money, but Republicans met a lot of them too.
Thats amazing thing, they made a lot, 800 billion, but were getting it back, were getting it back. Were going to be getting a lot of it. One thing, if they let me really do my thing, wed get it back, but I have to be a little bit politically correct by saying, "Its OK if we lose 20 billion with a country." You know, because we want to be nice, wouldnt it be nice to everybody.
Were cracking down on countries that cheat. Were replacing NAFTA with the brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement, the USMCA. NAFTA is the worst trade deal ever made. You know, many of you, people have factories and plants, theyre still empty. They signed NAFTA, and it was that great, big, sucking sound.
Remember that? Remember that? Ross Perot, a great big, sucking sound, its what happened. They left, they went to Mexico, they went to Canada, they went to a lot of places. It was a bad thing for us, but well be ending NAFTA, hopefully very soon, very soon. And one of the things in the new deal is that its very difficult financially for a company to leave the United States, fire all of its employees, move, lets say, to Mexico or Canada, open up a new plant, make a product, sell it in for no tax, so we end up with unemployment and nothing but loss and empty factories.
Thats not happening anymore, folks, not happening. Weve ended the war on American energy and the United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world, bigger than Russia and bigger than Saudi Arabia, can you believe that? Can you believe that? Three years. Thank you very much.
And were working now on getting pipelines approved in Texas that would normally take 10, 12, 14, 15 years to get approved, and were trying to get him approve very rapidly. And if we do that, were going to pick up another 20 to 25%, well be leading by so much. We already are leading by a lot. So it all happened over a very short period of time and weve confirmed more than 100 new federal judges to interpret the Constitution as  And as Norm said, and I appreciate that, so important, Norm.
We have confirmed two incredible Supreme Court justices, Neil Gossage and Brett Kavanaugh. Dont let the Democrats take it away from us, theyll take it all away, theyll take it all away, including the judges. With the help of Republicans in Congress, we have secured record funding for our military. Our military is now going to be stronger than ever before.
Ever. Not even close were developing new weapons systems, were developing things that nobody even thought of. Levels of technology that nobody else has with all of that being said, if we can be smart, and if China and Russia, and maybe one or two others, if necessary, can be smart, wed all be saving a tremendous amount of money, and thats OK with me, but we will be so far in the lead.
We always have to be in the lead and thanks to our focus on burden sharing, $100 billion, more dollars, will be coming this year to NATO, think of that. Other countries, in certain instances, were getting an almost free ride. We protect them and theyre delinquent. You know, I used a real estate term for George Klein.
He understands it. He understands. We were delinquent. They were delinquent. I said, "You got to pay." President Obama got -- made a nice speech, but he forgot to mention you got to pay. President Bush was wonderful, they didnt mention, you got to pay and you got to meet it, not just mentioned you got to mean it. I said you got to pay, because were in a position.
Everybody wants us, but how do you do that when people arent paying? How do you do that? We feel foolish. We feel like fools. Were not going to be fools anymore. Weve been a fool as a nation for so long, were not going to be fools anymore. Last year I withdrew the United States from one of the most dangerous one-sided deals ever negotiated the disastrous Iran nuclear deal.
They wanted to kill Israel, they wanted to destroy Israel. And maybe you could explain to the young man that just got taken out what it means when a country shouts as theyre signing the deal Death to Israel. Maybe you could explain that to him. Weve now imposed the toughest ever sanctions on the Iranian dictatorship, and it is not the same country it was when I took power.
When I took over the presidency, I will tell you, one of the first meetings I had was at the Pentagon. Great generals, great people. I wanted a briefing on Iran with 14 different sites, theyre all very, very dangerous, blow ups, all over. They were either behind it, hey had mercenaries, they had money or they had their own soldiers there all over the Middle East.
Its a whole different story today, folks. They have riots in the streets. They have very little money coming in. A lot of things have changed. North Korea, were getting along with North Korea. Lets see how it works out, but we have a good relationship. Dont forget, I have a very good relationship with Kim Jong-un. When I first came in, they were setting rockets and nuclear explosions and a lot of things were happening.
I cant tell you whats going to happen, how to walk from the one deal. Was it going to be a right deal, but -- but we have a great relationship, well see what happens, I hope were going to be able to do something. Maybe, maybe not, but I hope were going to be able -- Relationship is very important, you know that very well.
Were confronting the deadly menace of radical Islamic terrorism. When I took office, just over two years ago, ISIS controlled more than 20,000 square miles in Iraq and Syria. I held up a map, it was so much red. Red, meaning, them. All red, showing the different sites. Today, the ISIS caliphate has been 100% obliterated.
100%. And my previous generals said, "That it was going to take, sir, it will take two years." I flew to Iraq. I met a different group of generals, "Sir, we can do it in one week." I said, "You could take a little longer than that." They did it in a few weeks. They were -- They are great, right? Raisin Cain.
Hes name is Raisin. "Whats your first name?" "Raisin." "Raisin? What the hell kind of -- Whats your last name?", "Cain." "Wait a minute,your name is Raising Cain? I like you as a general." I think -- that its what I want. Even Sheldon Adelson likes that decision. The kind of guy hed have. I also took another historic action that had been decades in waiting.
The United States recognized the true capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Because, unlike other presidents, I keep my promises. Every president, for many decades, said they were going to do that, and I understand really why. Because when it was determined that maybe Id do it, maybe there was a chance.
The calls I got from leaders of other countries were unbelievable. Presidents, dictators, prime minister, kings, queens, everybody, my phone was ringing off the hook. So I knew I was going to do it, so I left a message. I said, "Im going to call you next week." They said, "Could we speak to him soon?". "No, no. No, hes not available." Theyll call it lying.
The fake news will say, "Thats a horrible lie." I want to be nice. "No, no Ill call you next week. I look forward to it." I had so many calls after this. It took me like three weeks to make all the calls, but I knew what they were calling about. So I did it. I did it. Then I started calling people back.
King, how are you, how have you been? "I called you last week." "So whats up?" "Well, I wanted to talk to you about Israel and the embassy in Jerusalem." I said, "Look, Im sorry, wish I wouldve known. I did it, I did it yesterday." Right, its much easier, but I now know why other president -- I dont really hold it against him other than they didnt keep their promise, right?
They didnt keep their promise, David. So thats the way it is, and we got you something that you wanted. I can tell you, Sheldon and Miriam, that is the most important thing, I think, thats ever happened in their life. They love Israel. So, I can now understand, because I always said, "Why wouldnt they do it, why?
Why are they doing it? Why wouldnt they just do it?" They campaign, "We will do this and that -- Israel, Israel." Then you folks go out and vote for them and then they dont do it, right? Four years, eight years, didnt matter, they wont do it, but you know what, they did it. We did a great job and we feel great about it. And then last week, Israel security, really so important.
Its all about security, when you get right down, its about security, so is No. 1 for me. I got to talk. We can talk healthcare we could talk a hundred different things without security. What does it matter? I stood with Prime Minister Netanyahu, Benjamin Netanyahu. How is the race going by the way? How is it? Who is going to win the race?
Tell me, I dont know. Well, its gonna be close. I think its gonna be close. Two good people, two good people. But I stood with the prime minister at the White House to recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. The Golan Heights is something Ive been hearing about for a long time, the Golan Heights.
So, I just talked to your Ambassador Friedman and not about this, theyve been trying to get that approved, as you know, for 52 years they wanted recognition from the United States of the Golan Heights. They had 32 summits, meetings, big meetings over many, many decades about the Golan Heights. Im talking to your ambassador.
Gerard was there, Jason Greenblatt was there. I said, "Fellas, do me a favor, give me a little -- a little history, quick, wanna go fast." I got a lot of things Im working on, China, North Korea. Give me a quickie. Norm, I said, "Give me a quick little slice -- so I know it as well as Norm, but I dont want to spend quite as much time as he has spent studying it, but -- which has been his entire life, right?
So that 32 different summits, he starts going well. We need that as a high point, we need it for protection we need it for -- I said, I could -- How do you like the idea? They werent even calling about this. How do you like the idea of me recognizing exactly what were discussing? Because I agree, you need it. You need to hide, you need to hide.
The great generals said, "Always fight downhill. Never fight, uphill." Battles are lost, for these generals want to fight uphill, right? You need to hide. So I said, "David, what do you think about me recognizing Israel and the Golan Heights?" He said, "Would you actually do?" It is a great deal because one of the most successful lines was gave it all up. In order to be your ambassador gave it all up. "What do you think of it David?" And he goes -- and this is a very strong, ambitious guy.
He like it like a wonderful, beautiful baby, he said, "Do you really -- You would do that, sir?" I see -- I think, Im doing it right now. Lets write something out. We make fast decisions and we make good decisions. Look, I made -- I made a lot of good decisions, I make good decisions and we get something beautiful talking about security.
Talking about the greatness of Israel and I went, "Bing, it was done." Then I watched well look at all those cameras. Then I watched the fake news and they said, "We have breaking news. President Trump has just committed to the Golan Heights." And it was a big big story for two days. Everyones happy, no repercussions and there wont be. I went there to protect Israel, so there wont be. We did the right thing, we did the right thing.
And I want to congratulate Jared, and Jason Greenblatt, and david Friedman and all of the people they work with. And a big thing for me, and some of you wont like this maybe, but I would love to see peace in the Middle East, I would love to see peace in the Middle East. And if those three cant do it, youll never have it done.
Its never -- with me as president, with them doing the deal, youll never have it done, so lets see if we can do it, who knows. Under my administration, the United States will always support Israels right to self-defense. At the United Nations we no longer tolerate any form of anti-American, anti Israel, and anti-Semitic bias.
We dont do it. For example, the United Nations Human Rights Council has repeatedly denigrated America and Israel. Why -- and you know this youve heard this while ignoring the worlds worst human-rights abusers. Thats why I withdrew the United States from the UN Human Rights Council, and thank you to Nikki.
Thank you to Nikki. Terrific job, Nikki Haley. With your help, we are making incredible strides on behalf of the American people and we are just getting started.  Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And that guy that just said that, he used to hate me. Can you believe that? He used to hate me. Thank you very much, I appreciate it. But while Republicans fight to protect the jobs and safety of all Americans, Democrats are advancing the most extreme partisan agenda by far in American history.
You see whats happening. You see whats happening. People arent fighting for Israel in Congress, large numbers of people. You saw what took place three weeks ago. It was shocking that couldnt have happened. It could not have happened just a few years ago, could not have happened. If implemented, the Democrats radical agenda would destroy our economy, cripple our country, and very well could leave Israel out there all by yourselves, cant do that more than 100 Democrats in Congress are promoting the biggest government power grab in U.S history.
The $100 trillion Green New Deal, proposed by a wonderful young bartender, 29 years old, 29. No, I like her, shes 29 years old. We take trains to Europe, Hawaii and Australia. Thats a problem. The farming business is in big trouble, right. The auto business you get one car, somehow Detroit etc., you know bring in so many car companies in. I dont think theyre going to be thrilled to hear that.
We are -- were built -- I tell you what, when you look at whats happening with the car companies, theyre opening up in Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania and North Carolina and South Carolina, its amazing, whats happening, we want to keep it going. You know, they could destroy what weve built very quickly.
It does it -- thats why having Lindsey and David and all of the people that I mentioned, and so many more back in Washington really want to stop it, and weve got to win the election, were going to win it, were going to win a big. It will never be as easy as it looks. Over 120 congressional Democrats are also supporting a socialist takeover of our healthcare system that would take away private insurance.
If you take a look at this, 180 million people will lose their private health insurance. And youre finally happy, youre happy. Weve done a lot of work on that, youre happy. The radical Democrats are also pushing for a thing called -- If you can believe this, open borders. They want open borders, they want people to pour into our country.
Last month, more than 100,000 illegal migrants were apprehended at our border. Apprehended. Think of this, hundreds of thousands of people. And were on pace to apprehend more than a million illegal migrants this year, a million theyre coming up because of the economy theyre coming up because our laws are so bad from the Democrats.
Catch and release you catch em and you release em. Oh, thats wonderful. If they put one foot on our territory, if they start climbing a fence and theyre on the Mexico side. Welcome to the United States, think of it. Its the craziest thing. They have a visa lottery. Democrats, a visa lottery, a lottery, countries, a lottery.
You pick out a name. Do you think theyre putting their finest? Do you think theyre putting their great people there? No and then people come in and you see what happens with the crime and murders, 4,000 murders last year, four thousand. How stupid can we be to put up with this? How stupid can we be? And the asylum program is a scam, some of the roughest people youve ever seen, people that looked like they should be fighting for the UFC.
They read a little page given by lawyers that are all over the place, you know, my lawyers, they tell them what to say. You look at this guy, you say, "Wow, thats a tough cookie." I am very fearful for my life. I am very worried that I will be accosted if I was sent back home. No, no hell do the acoustic.
Asylum. Oh, give him asylum, hes afraid, hes afraid. We dont love the fact that hes got tattoos on his face, thats not a good sign. We dont love the fact that hes carrying the flag of Honduras or Guatemala or El Salvador only to say hes petrified to be in his country. To confront this border crisis, I declared a national emergency.
And David Perdue and Lindsey Graham helped me, a lot of people helped us. When congressional Democrats tried to reverse my order and terminate vital border security operations, I very proudly issued my first veto and they were not able to turn over the veto. So now we have -- in fact we have billions of dollars.
Weve started building walls -- actually, a while ago, from the first 1.6 billion and renovation of a lot of walls, we can do that a lot cheaper. We had walls that were potentially very good, but they were in very bad shape, they were old, we renovated it. We have got a tremendous amount, were going to put out list, but we will have hundreds of miles before the end of next year.
Hundreds of miles. And yesterday I traveled to the border in Calexico, California, and I saw a section of brand new 30 foot high steel wall, you want to be able to see through it. Got to see through it, got to see whos on the other side, beautiful wall, looks great, looks great. Walls build good neighbors, right.
Now we we have to take care of ourselves and I have to say I said I was going to close the border. Its gotten so bad. I said were closing the border and as soon as I said that, and I really thank the president of Mexico because they stepped up and now they are apprehending people on their southern border.
Coming in from Honduras, El Salvador, and various other places,Guatemala and I stopped paying almost $600 million to those three countries. Now I got a lot of heat. The Democrats say, "How dare you do that?" That money is used for all these good, but no its not its largely stolen. I sent 600 million, we do, 600 million to three countries and they form caravans.
Now, if the government wanted to, I have a feeling theyd be able to stop caravans from forming in those three countries. I have a feeling theyre, pretty tough theyre, pretty tough ad, but they did say, stop the payment. Do you mind? Are you okay with it? Because Ive taken -- Ive taken a lot of heat from the stupid people that say, "Oh gee, we should keep..." We have people that work with them that say we should be sending much more money.
We should be building things theyre, helping them. What about building our own country for a change? Wouldnt that be nice? Unfortunately, Democrats have refused to close immigration loopholes, thats really what its all about. And again, Mexico is apprehended 14,000 people yesterday, a thousand people today, before theyve never done this.
Never to the extent, and I appreciate it, I appreciate it, but if they dont do it, Im going to close the border or Im going to do tariffs or the cars made in Mexico. They took 30% of our car business, by the way, I wasnt here when that happened, OK. I used to complain about it as a civilian. I complain, I said, "What the hell is going on? Theyre taking our business." They have 30% of our cars.
They make 30% of our cars, they send them into our country, no tax, no nothing, essentially, and we lost a lot of jobs, but were getting them all back now, were getting more back. But I said were either going to tariff those cars coming in at 25%, which is a tremendous amount of money. Its all about the cars, the cars are a big deal or were going to close the border, and I will say this, Mexico has been great.
The last four or five days, theyve been great, first time first time. At the heart of, and I dont mind, closing the border. Id say, you know, a lot of these fakers back there they say, "He will never close the border." Its too much. Well, you know, close the border. We stop about $500 billion worth of drugs from pouring into our country.
You know, there are a lot of advantages too, a lot of advantages. Im OK with it. I dont want to do it, but Im OK with it, Ill do it. Ill do whatever is necessary to stop an invasion of our country. Thats what it is. At the heart of the crisis are the 9th Circuit rulings in the Flores case and the Trafficking Victims, Protection Reauthorization Act, driving a staggering surge of illegal families and minors into the hands of our incredible border patrol people.
Theyve done an incredible job. What they do is incredible, I was with them yesterday. So Congress must end catch-and-release so that illegal border crossers can be quickly and safely returned to their home. Get out. Sorry, get out, sorry, cant handle it. And I told my people yesterday, our countrys full, were full.
Our systems full, our country is full, cant come in, our country is full. What can you do? We cant handle anymore? Our country is full, cant come in, Im sorry, its very simple. Never before has a major political party been more outside the American mainstream than the Democrats of today. They have become the party of high taxes, open borders, late-term abortion, crime, witch hunts, and delusions.
And now the Democrats have even allowed the terrible scorch of anti-Semitism to Take root in their party and in their country, they have allowed that, they have allowed that. House Democrats recently blocked legislation to confront the anti-Semitic movement to boycott and sanction Israel. Nobody could believe it, right.
Nobody. You couldnt believe it. Republicans believe that we must never ignore the vile poison of anti-Semitism. We do, all of us. Earlier this year, I appointed a new special envoy to monitor and combat Anti-Semitism. We are grateful that he has joined us today, Elan Carr. Where is Elan? Thank you, great job, Elan.
Elan is as good as I hear, hes going to do a great job. Thank you. Thank you very much. Congratulations. At my State of the Union address. I was honored to have as our guest a Pittsburgh SWAT officer, brave guy. I was with him in the hospital who raced into gunfire during the horrific anti-Semitic attack on the Tree of Life synagogue.
He was shot seven times badly injured. He endured 12 surgeries and hes gonna have to endure quite a few more. We are proud to have him here with us right now. If he wasnt there as bad as it was, as horrible as it was, it would have been much worse. He is a brave man, Timothy Mattson. Please stand, Timothy.
Timothy. I saw him right after this horrible event, this horrible happening, and he was laying in the hospital he had bullet wounds all over, hes a massive guy. I looked at the chest, I mean, hes got like this and its muscle. Thank God, youre massive and thank God, you had a lot of muscle because very few people got to take it when you took Timothy, and your friends had such respect for him.
His fellow officers they had such respect. Thank you. Glad to see you better. Thats great. Glad to see you better. Amazing what he what he went through. Today we also honor two more American heroes, Mordechai Lichtenstein and , I love that name. Both from Brooklyn. I know Brooklyn very well, my father Fred Trump, I loved my father.
Brooklyn. Spent a lot of time in Brooklyn. You learn a lot in Brooklyn. You get through Brooklyn, you got to be smart. Two years ago, Mordechai and  traveled to Jerusalem, where they prayed at the Western Wall. Soon after they left the holy site, they saw a terrorist stabbing an innocent Israeli police officer, racing to the scene.
Mordechai pull the attacker off the soldier and was about to be stabbed himself. It was happening when the badly wounded officer summoned the little strength that he had left and shot and killed this very violent terrorist. ] immediately took his prayer shot and wrapped it around the officers wounds to stop the bleeding, which was profuse after the attack, the officer said of the two Jewish Americans.
They were sent by God to save my life. For me, my family and the Druze people of Israel. I thank God from the bottom of my heart. Thats the officer, thank you, Mordechai, , where are you? Stand up. Great job, thank you. Great job, great job. Thank you very much. Recently, Mordechai and  became the first non-Israeli citizens to receive the countrys civil, exemplary declaration.
Thats a big deal. To Mordechai and  you are an inspiration to all of us to everyone in this room to everyone in our country. Thank you very much. The three American heroes we recognize today are a powerful reminder of the timeless values that bind us together. As one nation, and that forge deep and lasting friendship with the people of Israel, we honor our history.
We treasure our traditions, we cherish life, we love our families, we defend our sovereignty, we fight for our freedom and we place our trust in the hands of Almighty God. These are values that unite us all as Republicans as citizens, as patriots, and as proud Americans. Every day of my presidency, we fight on behalf of hardworking citizens who pay their taxes, follow our laws, raise their children, protect our communities and make this the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of earth.
This government is their government, and this land is home. These American patriots have always been loyal to our country, and we will forever be loyal we swear to them. The choice for our countrys future has never been clearer than it is today. The Republican Party is the party for all Americans. It will be the party for great healthcare, you watch.
We are the party of the American worker, we are the party of the American family and we are the party of the American dream. Alongside our friends at the Republican Jewish Coalition, we will keep on working. We will keep on fighting and we will be winning, winning, winning for the American people. With your help on November 3, 2020. Can you believe?
Its right around the corner. Think of it. Right around the corner.  Thank you very much. Were going to win. By the way. One of the people, and then that was confirmed by somebody else today on the other side Democrats were saying that they would reinstate -- just reinstate the Iran nuclear deal.
Well, this is what you have. They want to reinstate the deal. It was a disaster for our country. We gave $150 billion, $1.8 billion in cash. What does that look like? Airplanes loaded up with cash, how stupid was that deal, they want to reinstate it. Republicans are going to win the White House, were going to retake the House.
Were going to keep the Senate and we are once again going to be in a position, in my opinion, like never ever before, stronger than weve ever been before. There is more spirit for the Republican Party right now than Ive ever seen. They keep talking about the spirit of the Democrat Party, theres more spirit for Republicans.
In my opinion, by far, we may express it somewhat differently and thats OK, more spirit than I have ever seen, and Ive now been doing this for a little while, not too long. Im one for one, thats one for one. I want to be two for two and then relax. Together with the love, the prayers, and devotion of everyone in this room, incredible people and the millions of patriots across our land, we will make America great again for all Americans greater than ever before.
