Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Addresses the White House State Leadership Day Conference|October 23, 2018
Thank you very much, its a great honor to be with you. And, Secretary Chao, youve been so fantastic in so many ways. Transportation -- its just moving along. And youve done a fantastic job for me and for the country. And I appreciate all that you do.
And I shouldn’t say it because it always causes a problem, but we just dont have any problems there. It goes so smooth. And youre a very special person. Thank you very much, Elaine. Really appreciate it.
Its a true honor to host so many great leaders from Alaska, California, and Hawaii. In particular, I want to thank the President of the National Association of Counties and a member of the San Diego County Board of Supervisors, Greg Cox.  Greg, thanks. Go ahead, stand up. Yeah, thats good. Thank you, Greg.
Also, Acting Administrator Andrew Wheeler is joining us. Where is Andrew? Andrew is here someplace. I saw him back there. Thank you, Andrew. Thank you very much.
Since I first took office, my administration has made it a priority to invite county commissioners from across the United States to the White House. Very, very important people to me and to a lot of other people. Perhaps to some people, youre not important. But, to us, youll always be important, okay?  We know where its at. We know where its at.
I am pleased to say that more than 3,700 local officials from all 50 states have now participated in a White House State Leadership Conference.
In recent weeks, we have seen the crucial importance of state, local, and federal partnerships. Natural disasters have struck states across the nation, including each of yours -- and very heavily in your states. In every instance, our joint response and recovery efforts have been critical to saving lives and rebuilding communities.
The White House State Leadership Conference is a perfect venue for us to share priorities and to forge partnerships.
This is a truly exciting time for America. Youve heard me say this before, but we just got the World Economic Forum the recognition that the United States has reclaimed its rightful place, after many years of being off the list, as the most competitive economy anywhere in the world. Nice.  Were back. Its a big statement.
And if you look at consumer confidence, were at the top of every list. Were setting records in terms of that, too. But we got back on the list in the number-one position and worlds most competitive.
Following the passage of our massive tax cuts and regulation cuts, the unemployment rate has fallen to the lowest level in more than 50 years -- 5-0. We have -- . Great.
We have created more than 4.2 million new jobs and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps. So --  -- thats a great number.
Median household income in 2017 was the highest level ever recorded.
Hispanic American household income reached an all-time high, historic level. Hispanic American poverty and African American poverty have reached an all-time low. The lowest levels ever.  Thats great.
Hispanic American, African American, and Asian American unemployment all recently achieved their lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our country.  Thats pretty great.
Weve reached a deal to replace NAFTA. And, as you know, I wasnt a big fan of NAFTA. I think its one of the worst trade deals ever entered into. I rate it second; I wont tell you what the first is.  Theres another one thats actually worse. And I wont tell you its the WTO. Okay? I refuse to tell you the name.  But thats a total disaster, also. I refuse to say what it is, though. Keep it quiet. Am I allowed to say "off the record"? Lets see.
And we have a tremendous new deal with -- so, with the United States, Mexico, and Canada. The "USMCA," we call it. I didnt want the "NAFTA" name on it, because I saw what NAFTA did many years ago to towns and factories and businesses; and what it did to the car companies where -- not so much to companies -- to Michigan, and Ohio, and Pennsylvania and Kentucky and so many other places where these companies just left the United States. And we still have empty factories all over the place from that devastation of NAFTA.
Well, we have just the opposite: the USMCA. One of the strongest things about that, youre not going to have companies leaving anymore, because they have a dis-incentive to leave. I dont want them to leave.
Call me a "nationalist" if youd like, but I dont want companies leaving. I dont want them firing all their people, going to another country, making a product, sending it into our country -- tax-free, no charge, no tariff, no nothing. And in the meantime, we end up with empty plants, unemployment all over the place. We end up with nothing. So those deals are not happening anymore.
We also completed a wonderful new deal with South Korea. This was a deal that the previous administration did. And they promised 250,000 jobs. They said, "This will create 250,000 new jobs." And they were right -- for South Korea, not for us.  They produced 250,000 jobs; we got nothing, except loss. So weve renegotiated the deal with South Korea. Now, its a reasonable deal.
Just last week, I signed a presidential memorandum to dramatically improve the reliable supply and delivery of water critical to states like California.  Its one of the most ridiculous things. I saw it on the campaign trail, and I saw it numerous times. But I was out in that area -- actually with Congressman Devin Nunes, who is a terrific guy, and some of the congressmen that, right now, are out there so happy at what I signed.
And I look at these incredible, beautiful fields, and theyre dry. Its like dry as a bone. And I see hundreds and hundreds of acres as far as the eye could see, and then youd have a little, tiny, little green patch in the corner. Just beautiful -- green. Its so beautiful. So rich.
And I said, "Huh, whats going on? You have this little patch, and then you have all this dry, horrible…" -- really, to me, it was horrible. It was all dry land. And they said -- I said, "You must have a tremendous drought going on." This is like, three and a half, four years ago. I said, "You must have a tremendous drought going on."
They said, "No, we have so much water, we dont know what to do with it. But they dont let the water come down to us. It naturally flows to us. They wont let it -- they send it out into the Pacific Ocean. Millions and millions and millions of gallons. We have the greatest farmland anywhere in the world, but they wont give us water. So the only areas are if we take little spots on these massive areas of land."
I could see it. Im driving down the highway and Im saying -- after, like, 10 minutes of looking at all this barren -- and then a little spot of beautiful. So green. Ive never forgotten it.
And I said, "Whats going on here?" But I assumed it was a drought. They said, "No. The government, state and federal, send the water out into the Pacific." I believe he said theyre trying to protect a smelt. Little, tiny -- which, by the way, is doing very poorly.  Its doing very poorly. Nobody knows what a smelt is. I still dont know what a smelt is. But its doing very poorly. It really is a terrible thing.
I said, "So, let me ask you…" And they have a -- they have a -- like a valve, but massive. Like from a faucet, but massive. And they turn it and the water goes pouring, Elaine, out into the Pacific Ocean, where it means nothing. Like, like a drop. For the Pacific, its a drop. For the farmers, its like we have more water, more economic development than anything you can do in the state of California.
So it left a great impression. And I told them, I said, "Listen, if I win the nomination…" -- this was during -- before I got the nomination -- "…and if I go on to victory, Im going to come back and revisit this. This is a seriously defective thing going on." I thought they had a drought. I said -- you know, I didnt realize. They said, "No, we have so much water, we dont know what to do with it."
Then you have all the forest fires burning. We have so much water, they could actually water some of it. And of course, Secretary Zinke -- Im sure he talked about management. Because, you know, were tired of giving California hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars all the time for their forest fires, when you wouldnt have them if they managed their forests properly. They dont. They have lousy management.
And the environmentalists are, you know, doing something very bad. They wont let us take the logs. They wont let us take the dead trees. Its all a mess.
And if you did it properly -- I was in another state I wont mention, but I was in another state where they have tremendous forests and its a very well-managed state. And they maintain their property. And when a tree dies, it doesnt sit there dry as a bone; rotting; and, if a little spark hits it, the whole -- they lose 200,000 acres.
And theyve tested and they did -- and, basically, its almost -- you cant lose anything when you maintain. They sometimes have a grass burn-off underneath the tree; doesnt affect the tree. Doesnt last long enough to light the tree. And they said, "We had two areas we checked. One was where we let it be, like the California where they have such a disaster. And the other was where we cleaned and managed the forests.
We lit one; we lost a half an acre. We lit the other; we lost like -- I dont know what he said -- like 100,000 -- it was out of control. And these guys are really good with this. But they did it as an experiment. They lost a tremendous -- thousands and thousands of acres. We couldnt put it out, they said.
So, California, get on the ball. Because were not going to hand you any more money. Its ridiculous, okay?
So with the water, were looking at that. I mean, were not only looking, its going to be approved. Were -- Andrew Wheeler, EPA, is working on it; and Zinke; and everybody. Were going to have that approved fast. And the state has to approve it too. And I hope the state will do it. You know, in California, it might be tough, but they have to do it. They have to do it.
Do you know the kind of money youre talking about for the state and for the federal government? Youre talking about an area thats not doing well, to an area that would be the most robust farmland in -- anywhere in the world.
Because Ive heard -- I dont know, you people are nodding like you know exactly what Im talking about. I hear its the finest land there is for growing things. But they took away the water. You know, its artificial. They took it away. Do you understand? Am I correct? Do you want to stand up? You look like you know exactly what youre talking about. I dont know who he is, but thats okay.  Good-looking man. Nice-looking man.  Go ahead. Go ahead.
Oh, youre Central Valley?
Thats great.
Absolutely.
Its true.
And you used to have the water, right?
They turned it off. They literally turned the water off.
I did.
Well, we have to get the state bill to get it approved.  Now we have to get -- now we have to get the -- you know, I didnt know Id be doing this. To be honest with you, we stuck on this point. But it has such -- especially with the commissioners and every -- we have to get the state to approve their share. The amount of jobs youre talking about is an enormous. The amount of economic development -- the hundreds of millions of dollars. And itll be better maintained, much better maintained.
Yes, please.
So horrible, isnt it?
Well, I know California well. And I see houses, beautiful houses -- people are very proud of their house. Their lawn is brown.  Its dead. Its dying. Its dead. And they end up taking it out and just have sand in front of their houses. And they have so much water, they dont know what to do with it. Its so crazy.
And youre lucky, you have the climate and you have the -- and you have the heat. But you have the water. Very few climates have that. Most climates like that dont have water; you do. You have so much you dont know what to do with it. It is a disgrace.
So on behalf of all of the congressmen that I signed with the other day -- and I hear, in California, it was very well received. The people want it. The only ones that dont are a couple of environmentalists that probably get paid huge amounts of money for being consultants -- I know that business better than anybody in the world --  -- and some of the politicians that probably think its popular, what theyre doing. And its not; its the opposite. Thats one of the great examples.
Okay, you tell the people were with them and, whatever we have to do to push the state, we will do to push the state. And those congressmen that stood behind me -- those people are great people. Theyre not doing it for themselves. Theyre great people. They just know whats right and wrong.
So good luck. We will be pushing. Okay? Thank you.  Its amazing. Thank you. And thank you for being here.
Later today, Im going to sign Americas Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, which authorizes important investments in ports and harbors and waterways and levees and water systems in communities all across our country.
I was in Texas last night, where we had a seriously amazing crowd of people.  We had over 100,000 people sign up to hear a speech. So they want to hear something. You know, theyre waiting. Theyre tired of whats been happening for so many years.
And big oil -- they cant get ships into harbors because they cant get permits to drain. And is Andrew Wheeler here someplace? Because Im going to ask Andrew to get that done right away. If you -- if Andrew could just step up, Ill ask Andrew to get that done. And their ports -- where is he?
Oh, come here, Andrew.
Hes Acting, but hes going -- hes doing well, right? So maybe he wont be so Acting so long -- Andrew -- especially if he gets this done.
So, in Texas, they cant get the big ships in because they need to dredge a couple of feet. Standard stuff. They cant get the permits. Its not for months; theyve been trying for years. But the ships have gotten much bigger and probably with the silt, its gone up a little bit.
But if you could work with the state of Texas, and Ill give you the names, they were just -- last night. They say the cost of this is enormous what its costing not to do it. The dredging is very -- but they need dredging. You may have heard about it. You may know it.
But whatever you can do for the great state of Texas. This way they can bring the giant ships right in, fill them up, and they go out.
And itll be a tremendous difference. It will sell a lot more oil. We have now become the number-one energy source in the world. Can you believe it? In the last little while. If you could do that, Andrew, okay?
Thank you. Hell get it done. To expand -- boy, were getting a lot done. I was just going to say a few words.  I was going to say a few words, and get out of here and say -- now Ive fulfilled my function to Elaine and to Kellyanne. Wheres Kellyanne? Our great Kellyanne. Shes so good. Shes -- theyre all backstage here. I think theyre all looking for something exciting. Oh, shes speaking? Isnt she after me?
Oh. Thats going to be interesting.  Oh. Shes speaking. Maybe Ill have to hang around and hear her speak.  Shes terrific.
To expand opportunity for all citizens, we are also focused on vocational education. To me, very important.  Very important. And Im proud to have signed into law the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. Thats a long name, but good name. And I love the name "vocational."
You know, when I was growing up, we had vocational schools. Today you have community college. Im trying to say, "Well, a community college -- what do they teach? English and Latin and -- what are they teaching?" The old days, we had vocational schools.
And Id go to school with people who knew -- werent necessarily good students, but they could go outside after school hours and take away a car engine, take apart electric motors, take apart their -- and nobody else -- the best student in the class didnt even know what theyre doing. They had no clue. But they were great at that, and thats what they liked to do.
And weve gotten rid of vocational schools and weve replaced them with community colleges. We need vocational schools. Its great money.
I mean, did you see a recent study came out? They earn more than a lot of the white-collar people that go out and they work behind a desk. Theyre doing better. And thats their ability, and thats what they want to do. So we have to bring back vocational schools. Use that name. I think its a much better name.
Our Pledge to Americas Workers has also resulted -- and Ivanka Trump worked so hard on this -- in employers committing to train more than 4 million Americans. And that number is now up substantially. These are the companys training.
One of the most important areas of state and federal cooperation is public safety. In the past, and if you look at post-9/11 era, we know how capital -- and how critical it is to have a seamless cooperation between all levels of law enforcement. And I want to specially thank the community leaders here today we have expressed their support for working with federal immigration authorities. So important. So great.
And a lot of times youre not allowed to do it, by some bad leadership in various states. You have some bad leadership, but you know what the right thing to do is. So I want to thank all of those people that work with federal immigration authorities to remove gang members, drug dealers, and criminals from your community. Sounds like a pretty easy thing to do, I think.
So what do they do? They say, "No, we dont want gang members removed from the community"? "We dont want -- we dont want criminals removed." I guess, right? Someday, youll have to explain the politics of that, okay? Because I dont get it. I dont think too many people in this room do either because you know what youre doing at the highest level. But I appreciate you working with the authorities.
My administration is also working closely with state and local leaders to save the lives of those suffering from the scourge of drug addiction, by taking historic action to confront the opioid epidemic, and also the drug epidemic. I mean, just the drug -- generally -- epidemic.
Since last year, the totally number of opioid prescriptions has decreased by 17 percent. And were very -- working very hard on the drug problem.
You see whats going on on the border. You see how bad the immigration laws are given to us -- thank you very much -- by the Democrats. Theyre the dumbest laws anywhere in the world. Dumbest immigration laws anywhere in the world. Theres nothing -- catch-and-release.
You know what catch-and-release is?  You catch a criminal, you take his name, and you release him. Release him. You know where we release him? Into the United States. Supposed to come back for a trial two or three years later because the judges -- you know, you need thousands of judges. How do you have judges for that many people? Its so ridiculous.
Another country doesnt do that. They say, "Im sorry, I cant come in. You cant come in." Once they set a foot on our land, its like, "Welcome to the United States." It is the dumbest. Were changing it. But we need Republicans. We need people -- or Democrats that have common sense, or Democrats that arent going to listen to their bosses, because thats what it is.
But you see whats happening. And you see the drugs they pour into our country through many different ways, but many through the southern border. And were taking care of it.
You also see whats coming up. We have a lot of people coming up. We cant let that happen. We either have a border or we dont. We need a wall. Weve put up some of the wall. We do it as fast it comes.
The money comes in; we are building. And San Diego -- for those of you that are from San Diego --  -- they were begging us for a wall. I said, "Maybe well leave it until the end." Because they wanted it so badly. Theyre strong politically. But I said, "Look, lets get it done." And weve done a great job with building it, and its had a tremendous impact on San Diego. And Im not sure; I think the people will tell you that. But Im not sure that the governor would tell you that or any of that.
Were in a system thats so political that they don’t want to do whats right if its politically good for them. And the fact is, I actually think its bad politically for them; they just dont realize it. And maybe thats why were here and theyre there. Maybe thats why. Maybe thats why. Could be.
But last year, ICE -- theyre very brave, brave people -- and Customs and Border Patrol seized more than 2.8 million pounds of illicit and deadly narcotics. Early estimates show that, in 2017 and 2018, fentanyl -- a real horrible situation with fentanyl -- seizures were more than four times higher than the previous two years. Were working very hard on that. Even going through the postal systems, were working very hard. You saw the change we made last week.
On these initiatives and so many others, were working hand in hand with your state and local leaders: you. And were getting tremendous cooperation. I appreciate it very much because otherwise we cant beat -- you cant beat this problem. The state people are so important to what were doing. Were committed to a future of safety, opportunity, and prosperity for all Americans, from California, to Hawaii, to Alaska, to every state in our magnificent Union.
Thank you all for being here. Thank you all for your incredible service. We really appreciate it. Were going to work with you so hard and so strong. And any problems, you call -- just call me direct. Why not? Im here. Okay?  Im here. But we will work with you 100 percent.
