Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Wilmington, OH|November 4, 2016
What a place. Have you been seeing whats happening with those polls? Theyre like rocket ships. Theyre like rocket ships.
I tell you its been great. I love Ohio. I love Ohio.
I worked in Ohio, did well in Ohio, gave me confidence to go out with life. Right at the beginning I was in Ohio, so we love it. Thank you everyone for coming. In four days, we are going to win the great State of Ohio and we are going to win back the White House. New polls just out have us with a very substantially lead in Ohio, nationwide.
Many of the states, were looking great in Florida, were looking great in North Carolina, we are looking great in the state of Pennsylvania, we just left New Hampshire, we have a lead in New Hampshire. These very dishonest people back there, the media, theyre getting a little worried. Theyre getting a little bit worried, this wasnt supposed to happen. This was not supposed to happen.
You can vote early in person or you can show up on November 8th. Who has voted? Whoa, not great. But youre saving it for November 8th I think, correct? You want to be traditional, right? Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing horrible ObamaCare. Its just been announced that the residents of Ohio are going to experience massive, massive problems with their ObamaCare, you know about that I guess, right? You know about it. Its a serious problem, it is a serious problem and youre going to have numbers, in the great State of Arizona its gone up 116 percent, okay, 116 percent.
So youre going to have a lot of problems, were going to work on it very hard, 88 counties in Ohio are losing at least three ObamaCare insurers a year, okay? So next year, youre going to have almost, almost nobody even to negotiate with by next year but its not going to matter because if we win the election, youre not going to have ObamaCare to worry about. Youre not going to have ObamaCare, nothing to worry about believe me. And we are going to have great healthcare at a much lower price and its going to be something youre going to be very proud of. Right now, its an international joke, ObamaCare, its an international joke.
Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, I know so many doctors, theyve quit and generally speaking, deductibles are going through the roof, some higher than others, we have deductibles Ive heard as high as $15,000 or $16,000. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on ObamaCare, making it even more expensive. Im asking for your vote so we can replace ObamaCare and save healthcare for every family in Ohio, but more importantly because we dont want to think of ourselves, for every family in the United States.
Its a big problem. It is a big problem. Real change also means restoring honesty to government, so we ought to start by getting rid of Hillary Clinton. The FBI now has multiple open criminal investigations going on Hillary Clinton, lots of bad things are happening, lots of really bad things are happening, but Ill tell you what, youre going to be amazed when its all finished, when you look at how its all fleshing out. The system is a beautiful system when it works, we have a rigged system so many times, you see this.
I mean, you have things going on that are incredible, that includes a discovery of another 650,000 emails and also a criminal investigation into her pay for play corruption at the State Department, amazing. Last night it was just confirmed that the 650,000 emails include brand new emails not previously seen by authorities, likely including classified information.
Hillary is now facing major problems with perjury. The FBI agents say their investigation is likely to yield perhaps an indictment. I love them. I love them. The reports also show that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying as hard as they can to protect their angel, Hillary, this is no angel. They want to protect their angel. Did we ever have a situation like this, seriously?
First of all, forget about as of last Friday with the new 650,000 emails that was found, forget that. She should have been disqualified for running for president from the first batch of emails and from all of the crimes that have been committed. I mean, take a look at the first batch, why do we even have to go? Now, were doing it, Oh
Thats the department where as you know the attorney the general was on the airplane, now they say it was for 45 minutes talking about the grandchildren and talking about golf for 45 minutes. I dont think so. I think they were talking about a position, in other words, a continuation of a position. I think thats what they were talking about folks.
Hillary has engaged in a criminal massive enterprise and cover- ups like probably nobody ever before. Remember John Podesta said she has bad instincts. And as you know as I was getting off the plane, they were just announcing new WikiLeaks and I wanted to stay there but I didnt want to keep you waiting, I didnt want to keep you waiting. Let me run back into the plane and find out. I didnt want to go - oh, there were some beauties coming out and Im saying, Do I listen for another" - you know
But think of it, John Podesta, her top person, said she has bad instincts. Who the hell wants a president where the person that knows her best said her instincts are bad. Now Bernie Sanders said she has bad judgment, but at least he was running against her, right? But the person working with - I tell you what, I would fire Podesta very quickly if I were Hillary, he should be fired. And honestly, shouldnt Huma be fired? Huma. I mean, can you imagine, Did you get rid of all the emails?" "Yes
And I said all the things I said and they all said, What a horrible thing to say." I turned out to be right and even some of these very dishonest people in the media said
So those people when they advertise the cloud, Never disappears." She said
She created an illegal email server to shield her criminal activity and corrupt pay for play and then she illegally destroyed 33,000 emails after - this the big key, after, thats the key word, after receiving a congressional subpoena, so after. So she gets the subpoena and she says get rid of it and thats fine. And yet, they put a four star general last week, James Cartwright, highly respectable, current four star general, they may put him in jail for up to five years for doing nothing by comparison. General Petraeus suffered horribly, reputation destroyed for doing nothing by comparison.
They took the kid who wanted some pictures of the submarine, thats an old submarine, theyve got plenty of pictures, if the enemy wants them, theyve got plenty of them. He wanted to take a couple of pictures, they put him in jail for a year. I saw his mother the other night on television. I tell you what folks, weve never been in a situation like this and if shes allowed to run for president then General Cartwright should put in jail for doing peanuts. And he said he did it - and he said he did it for - he said that he lied for national security purposes. Who knows? But he did nothing by comparison to what shes done.
If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis. She is likely to be under investigation for a long time concluding probably in a criminal trial. Hey look, we all want to go through a process and we want to make sure everyone is guilty properly, guilty properly, everything has to be perfect, but she did things where - and we have a trial, have to go with, but shes guilty. Shes guilty. She took the emails and thats the least of what she did. She got rid of emails, thats the least of what she did.
If she ever got into the Oval Office, Hillary and her corrupt friends would rob this country blind. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we all are about to say, we all - are you ready? Isnt it amazing how this phrase has gone up? I didnt like it, I thought it was corny, I dont know where they really sort of a corny phrase I didnt like it.
When we win in November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp. I thought it was corny and then I went to one rally and another and theyre all screaming, Drain the swamp" but Frank Sinatra didnt like My Way
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. Ohio has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by crooked Hillary Clinton. America has lost - this is one of the hardest things to believe because it doesnt seem physically possible. Seventy thousand factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill- and Hillary-backed disaster. Were living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, its true. Its the single greatest jobs theft, you take a look at whats happened not only in Ohio.
You look at upstate New York, you look at Pennsylvania, you look at North Carolina, you look at South Carolina, you look at whats going on, look at New England, boy they got hit. General Motors lay off 1,151 workers in Moraine and moved their jobs to Mexico, China, and various other countries. Faurecia laid off 356 workers in Troy, anybody from Troy? Good, do you still have your job? And moved their jobs to Mexico.
Delphi laid off 5,805, whats with Delphi? You know about that, right? Five thousand eight hundred and five workers in Dayton. Boy oh boy, thats a lot of jobs, and moved their jobs to Mexico. We have a one-way highway going into some of these countries especially Mexico. Everything goes in, I always say, they get the jobs, the plants, the money, we get the drugs, we get the unemployment, its a one way street. Not going to happen anymore folks, its not going to happen anymore.
There have to be consequences. When that happens, theres going to be consequences. Were going to fight - oh, dont worry about it, well build the wall, its going to be a great wall too. Its going to be a great wall. And every time I see a Delphi and every time I see these companies leaving, that wall gets a little bit higher, its going up. Its going to be a great wall. Were going to fight for workers and were going to fight so Delphi and these other companies dont leave us, and theres going to be consequences because the people got a raw deal and they deserve so much better.
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving Ohio and from leaving America and well stop the jobs, Ill tell you what, like youve never seen before, it will happen quickly. The theft of American prosperity will end. If a company wants to fire their workers, leave Ohio, move to another country, build their big beautiful factory, ship their products back into the United States, we will make them pay a 35 percent tax going through a very strong wall, its going to be a very strong wall.
And you know whats going to happen? Theyre not going to leave, not going to leave. Now, the politicians could do something about this. How long have we been talking about this, 15 years, right? It got really bad over the last five or six years, really bad. Its gotten to be catastrophic, catastrophic. But they know this. I mean some do and some dont, some are not exactly - I wont say it, some arent too bright. Some arent too bright. And some are getting tremendous amounts of money from donors and from people that want to see those companies leave, they have reasons for the companies to leave, including ownership interest in those companies.
The problem is, the politicians are working for those donors, theyre not working for the American people, theyre not working for all the people that got fired from what were good jobs. So whats going to happen is they want to leave and the ones who do leave, thats okay too because the country will make a fortune because thats going to be called a consequence, we can stop it dead. And as we see speak right now, you have leaders in your company going out right now as were speaking, you have leaders going out trying to negotiate deals to leave Ohio and other places, go to Mexico, go to another countries.
But dont worry about it, because if I get elected, therell be very little negotiation. A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and if we dont get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers, I want free trade, I want fair trade. You know, everyone wants free trade, we keep calling it free trade. Well I want free trade too but I really want fair trade, fair for this country and for our workers. Thats what its going to be, were going to have fair, fair trade.
We will also immediately stop this job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership from happening, thats going to be, thats another NAFTA potentially. As part of our plan to bring back jobs, were going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent. We will massively cut taxes for the middle class. We will also unleash American energy including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal. Were going to put our miners back to work, were going to put our steel workers back to work.
We will cancel billions of dollars of global warming payments to the United Nations. By the way, nobody even knows what happens to that money. I could tell you I have some pretty good ideas, but nobody even knows what happens and we will use that money to invest in America, that includes projects like improving Interstate 71 does anybody like that idea? You got to like it a lot otherwise, lets save the money. You know, we owe $20 trillion, okay? If you like the idea of improving the interstate?
I mean, its not exactly - youre not thrilled by it, lets not do it then, lets save the money and replacing the Brent Spence Bridge in Cincinnati, you like that? Which is critical to the region, you like that one better. You know, we should do that. Before we do a project, have a big rally, how do you like doing the interstate? People go, ahhh" how do you like doing the bridge? Oh
We will also rebuild our inner cities. We will become a rich nation once again. You know, our inner cities are in terrible shape, the African-American community has been absolutely mistreated by the people running the inner cities for so many years, up to a hundred years, unbroken and were going to fix and invest in our inner cities, were going to bring our jobs back into the inner cities. The crime is unbelievable, its staggering, the crime.
Thousands and thousands of shootings in Chicago just since the beginning of the year, were going to fix our inner cities. Jobs back, good education, and safety. And I say to the African-American community, I say to the Hispanic community, and Ive said it, What the hell do you have to lose? I mean
You give them the vote and then theyll say, So long folks

Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism, and radicalism, and its something we cant allow to happen. Theyll be in our schools, theyll be in our communities and honestly, we want to take care of people and we have to and well help them. Well build safe havens, well get the Gulf States who have nothing but money and they havent done their job, they will pay for it, were not paying for it. We have 20 trillion, were not paying for it.
