Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Addresses His Guests at Mar|a
But I have to start by thanking my family. Melania is here. Melanias parents are here.  She has been a really an incredible inspiration to a lot... she got to make a speech in Ohio recently. And making speeches all over. They always hold up the sign: "We love our First Lady."" We love our First Lady.  "
We have just such tremendous support... the great Lou Dobbs is here, by the way. Lou Dobbs.  Wheres Lou? Lou Dobbs. Stand up, Lou. Boy, Ill tell you. Ive loved him for years, but now I really love him.  And you know what? Its not about me. Its about... hes saying what he believes, Is that right? I mean, once in a while hell hit me, right Lou? Fortunately not too much. I just wanted to tell you, you are fantastic and we appreciate it. Everybody in this room would agree.
We want to thank Phil Ruffin, Mrs. Ruffin, for being here. I want to thank the great Steve Wynn, whos back here someplace. Wheres Steve? Wheres Steve? Hes doing a beautiful job. Phil... what they do is really fantastic. Lots of work.
The country, by the way, is doing great.  We just got our taxes cut. We have jobs pouring into the country. Europe isnt too happy with us because a lot of people are moving back into the United States. A lot of money is coming. You know, we have $4 trillion thats coming back, and were doing it the way it should be, and Ill tell you: theres more to come. I wont give any more information than that. You hear that, Lou? Theres more to come. More to come.
And Anthony, wheres Anthony sitting... where? I want to thank you, the great Anthony Pratt. Hes... Ill tell you. He said Im gonna to spend $2 million from Australia, one of the great people, one of the great businessmen in the world. He said, Im going to spend $2 billion if Donald Trump wins, and now hes spending much more than that. So I like that. So thank you very much, Anthony. Fantastic. And your wife, thank you very much.
I want to thank Ivanka and Jared and Don, theyre here, and all of my kids. Tiffanys here. Eric is here, and all of... the whole table over there, theyre like a table of incredible supporters.
So were gonna have a great 2018. Its going to be something very, very special. Its all kicking in. We have some pretty good enemies out there, but step-by-step, theyre being defeated.  Theyre some bad people. Bad people. But thats okay. Someday, maybe theyll love us. I dont know.
But, you know what theyre going to love? Everybodys gonna love is whats happening with our country, because were taking this big, beautiful ship, and were slowly turning it around. Id like to do it faster, but I think weve done more in one year... a lot of people have said -- even some of the critics have said -- that whether you like him or not, theyve done a lot. Theyve done more than any other administration ever in the first year, that I can tell you.
Regulations, the taxes, the courts. Weve put on... weve just set a record for putting on Supreme Court justices all over the country. So I want to just thank you very much. The District courts, by the way, and I have to say, we have 145 positions at District courts. Weve had 28 of them approved. Were going step-by-step, and theyre fantastic, and thats supposed... thats really something that is so important.
And of... everybody loves, on the Supreme Court, Justice Gorsuch. Do we love Justice Gorsuch?  We love him. Hes a very... hes a very special guy, and hes been doing great, and he really has been living up to all of the billing.
