Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Has a Bilateral Meeting with Moon Jae|in of South Korea
Thank you very much. Its a great honor to be with a very good friend of mine, President Moon of South Korea. Were having a very important set of discussions today, tomorrow, and the next day. Weve been having them for quite some time since you first gained office. And youre doing a terrific job. And I think were doing a terrific job together.
Weve had terrific talks on trade. And well be signing, in a little while, a very important trade agreement with South Korea and the United States. And I think its a very exciting event.
It was a long time in coming, and its a basic redoing of the agreement that was done before, which was a very unfair agreement for the United States. And I think that President Moon and myself, were very happy. Its great for South Korea. Its great for the United States. Its great for both.
We also talked, obviously, about North Korea, where were making tremendous progress. Chairman Kim has been really very open and terrific, frankly. And I think he wants to see something happen. So we have done -- I think, mutually, weve done very well with respect to North Korea. And well be discussing that during the next couple of days. Well be certainly discussing it now.
But I just want to say its a great honor to have President Moon with us. And thank you very much, Mr. President, for coming. Thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Well be having a second summit with Chairman Kim in the not too distant future. Our Secretary of State will be dealing with that subject. Mike Pompeo has been in touch with them, and weve been in touch with them. And I think within a fairly -- pretty short period of time, that will be announced and it will be location to be determined.
But were both very much looking forward to having it. It will be between North Korea and the United States. It will be similar to the format we had before, most likely a different location. Again, it will be announced pretty soon.
I think a lot of progress is being made. I see tremendous enthusiasm on behalf of Chairman Kim for making a deal, and I think that thats something thats very good. We are in no rush. Theres no hurry. We got back three months ago or so. I think weve made more progress than anybody has made in -- ever, frankly, with regard to North Korea.
I really believe North Korea has tremendous economic potential. And I believe that Chairman Kim and the people of North Korea want to see that potential arrived at, and we will help them to that end. And the relationship is very good; in fact, in some ways, its extraordinary. Well see what happens. But we will be having a second summit in the not too distant future. Okay? Thank you all very much.
No, Im meeting with Rod Rosenstein on Thursday when I get back from all of these meetings. And well be meeting at the White House, and well be determining whats going on. We want to have transparency; we want to have openness. And I look forward to meeting with Rod at that time. Okay?
Well, were going to have a meeting on Thursday when I get back. Right now, today, were meeting with a lot of great people, including President Moon. And were -- over the next couple of days, as you know, were meeting with many countries. Tomorrow were giving a big speech, but Ill be back on Thursday. And when I get back, were going to have meeting. Ive spoke with Rod today, and were going to have meeting on Thursday when I get back to the White House.
I want to say, the country, the United States -- as President Moon pointed out when we first met -- the United States is doing better economically than weve ever done before. The numbers are outstanding. New numbers will be released that I think will just continue this forward march. And I think we have tremendous potential on the upside.
Im very excited about our new trade agreement. And this is a brand new agreement. This is not an old one, rewritten. This is a brand new agreement. And Im very excited about that for the United States, and I really believe its good for both countries.
But the numbers that were doing in the United States, whether it be unemployment numbers or whether it be employment numbers -- we have right now, this moment, more people working in the United States than ever before in our history. Thats some number, Mike, right? And, you know, its a number that people did not expect to see. Its a number that nobody thought would happen, certainly within two years. Were not even up to two years of the administration. So we have more people working in the United States today than weve ever had.
Our unemployment numbers are among the best theyve ever had. For African American, its the lowest weve ever had. For Asian American, for Hispanics, the lowest weve ever had. And were very proud of that.
And on top of that, we have many companies moving back into the United States. In most cases, its back. They left and now theyre coming back. They all want to be where the action is.
