Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Greensboro, NC|June 14, 2016
That is beautiful. That is beautiful. And not a lot of notice either. We just wanted to be here. You know we won North Carolina, that put us right over the top. Thank you everybody. Thank you. And were going to put our country over the top. Were going to make America great again. Believe me.
So I walked in and theres this great man, a great guy that Ive been -- Happy birthday. Dont tell me about that. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. This is a nice crowd. Ill tell you what. I love you, folks. Thank you, folks. I love you.
I have a lot of property in North Carolina and I like that. I have a lot of employees. We pay them money, big league, we have healthcare, we have education. We take good care of our people. I want to tell you that. Theyre great people. Great people. But you know, I walk in and Ive been a fan of this band for a long time and he wanted to come over and endorse not only me, but you because this is a movement that we have going, folks.
We have a movement going. And you people may have heard of him. Hes got a lot more courage than all of us. He won 200 races. King Richard Petty. Hes a great guy. Ill tell you.
So I said Richard, you want to speak? He said, no, no. I want to drive. I want to drive. Hes not. You know, now with the politicians, theyre all talk and no action, right? Richard Petty is the exact opposite of that. So again, North Carolina, special place. And we went through a weekend, the likes of which we should never have to see again.
And I wrote a few things down that I want to read because we cant let this happen anymore. We cant. We have to be so tough. We have to be so strong. We have this -- be so vigilant. We cant be led by weak ineffective people. We cant. Theyre weak and theyre ineffective. And believe me, Hillary Clinton, weak, ineffective.
You listen to her -- I dont know if you know, she has 550% more people.
She wants to come in then Obama from a certain area where we just dont know whats going on. We dont know who they are. Where theyre coming from. Theres no documentation. And the governors -- I just left some great governor, including, by the way, Pat, your governor. Did a -- Hes doing a fantastic job.
But I just left a whole group of governors and they say, these people are being put in their communities, they dont even know who they are. They dont know where theyre being put. Theyre like being snuck into certain communities and government and governors dont even know whos coming into their community.
What a mess we have. What a mess we have.
And I just wrote some of this down and well, we got to do it because normally I talk about jobs which nobody can compete with us on jobs. Believe me. Were going to bring them back from all these countries that have ripped us off like nobody has ever been ripped off before.
Were going to bring our jobs back. And guess what? Were not going to let our companies leave anymore. Theres gonna be a little bit of a repercussion when they start to leave. Theres gonna be repercussions.
But as we all know, in Orlando, over the weekend, a radical Islamic terrorist kill 49 people at least and wounded dozens more. Dozens. It was the worst terrorist attack since September 11th and the worst mass shooting in our countrys history.
We want to live in a country where gay and lesbian Americans and all Americans are safe from radical Islam, which, by the way, wants to murder and has murdered gays and they enslave women.
Now Hillary Clinton talks about women. And she talks about how shes going to do. She plays the woman card more than any human being Ive ever seen in my life. And frankly, I dont even think women like her from everything I see. And yet shes taking shes taken $25 million from certain countries and much more than that when you add it up. That treat women horrendously, that kill gays.
And you know whats going to happen folks and you know what were going to do right now, lets call for Hillary and Bill Clinton to give back that $25 plus million to the countries that were talking about.
So the killers parents immigrated from Afghanistan. As the Washington Times reported, the children of Muslim immigrant parents, theyre responsible for a growing number, for whatever reason, a growing number of terrorist attacks. The killers Afghan fathers supported the Taliban, which believes in violently oppressing women and gays violently.
Were not talking anything else. Were talking violently. Once again, weve seen that political correctness is deadly. They dont want to talk about the problem. And I watched President Obama today and he was more angry at me that he wasnt the shooter, and many people said that. One of the folks on television said, boy, has Trump gotten under his skin.
But he was more angry and a lot of people have said this, the level of anger, thats the kind of anger he should have for the shooter and these killers that shouldnt be here.
Now there are reports that the wife knew about the attack. The second wife. Knew about the attack but may have not told the authorities. Nobody really knows. Her family reportedly is from Afghanistan. According to Pew, its a Pew report, 99% of the people in Afghanistan support oppressive Sharia Law.
Immigration from Afghanistan has increased five fold. We dont know what were doing folks. Every year, we bring in more than 100,000 lifetime immigrants from the Middle East and many more from Muslim countries outside of the Middle East. A number of these immigrants have hostile attitudes and it doesnt take a big percentage.
Look what one whack job. Look at this one whack. This one horrible savage. Look what he did in a short period of time to great young people. Look what he did and look at the carnage and devastation and destroyed families that hes caused.
So a number of these immigrants have hostile attitude toward women, toward gays and people of different faiths and that includes everybody. Theyre hostile. If youre not with them, its like forget it.
Hillary Clintons immigration plan would bring in millions of unvetted immigrants or very poorly vetted. And how can you vet somebody when you have no idea where they come from, you have no idea about the paperwork. Frankly, they have better passports than we do because they stole our passport machines. How that happened is pretty amazing.
All right? Including those who hate gays, women, Jews, Christians, everybody. How does this kind of immigration make our life better in this country. How does it do it?
So well fix it. He just said, fix it. Were gonna fix it. Were going to fix it. Because you know the truth is, folks, weve had enough. Weve had enough. Weve all had enough. And you know what? With our weak leadership, its going to get much worse before it gets better. You watch. Sadly, you watch.
Since 9/11, the United States has admitted more than a half a million immigrants from countries where being gay is punishable by death. Hillary Clinton, crooked Hillary, as we all know her, crooked Hillary, which is what she is, wants to increase these immigration numbers very, very substantially. Shes no friend of women and shes no friend of LGBT Americans.
No friend, believe me.
And how can you be a friend when you take many many millions, tens of millions of dollars, $25 million from one country they think. And how can you be a friend when these countries are oppressive to LGBT when theyre oppressive to everybody. How can you be a friend? How can you be a friend to women when you take that kind of money from people that enslave women.
How can you be a friend? And then women like Hillary better than Donald Trump? I dont think so. Ill be honest, I dont think so. I really dont think so.
So you know whoever really runs your country, whoever your leadership is says so much about the character of your country. Now Hillary Clinton also wants and this is amazing, she wants and everybody knows it, in fact, they fact check it. I thought it was 500%. And this morning on television, they said Donald Trump is wrong.
I said, oh really.
They said, its actually 550%. She wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees coming into our country. Again, we dont know who they are. Where do they come from? This could be the all time great version modern day of the Trojan Horse, folks. Remember that, the Trojan Horse.
Hillarys plan for resettling hundreds of thousands of refugees will cost the United States hundreds of billions of dollars, which we dont have. We owe $19 trillion. Were going to $21 trillion. Now were going to spend billions and billions of dollars in bringing in people. People that we dont know. We dont know enough about and what I want to do. Lets get the Gulf states.
We dont want to put up the money because we dont have any money.
Our infrastructure is going to hell. Our country is going to hell. Our military is in such trouble. Its so unbelievably depleted. Our jet fighters are old. They need parts. They take them from plane graveyards and museums for our jet fighters. Terrible.
So heres what we do. Weve admitted four times more immigrants, remember this, than any other country in the world. We cant do this. We cant do this. Not surprisingly, wages for people working in our country, real wages, real numbers have an increase for 18 years. And then they wonder why I have packed houses all over the place.
Hillary Clinton just yesterday used the term radical Islam, sort of used it, right? Did you see? And theyve said, Trump, I shouldnt be forcing anything. If you dont know what the term is and if you dont discuss what the problem is and if you cant say the real name, we have a radical Islamic terrorism problem, folks.
We can say we dont. We can pretend like Obama that we dont. Where Obama spent a long time talking about it and nobody at the end of that speech understood anything other than boy, does he hate Donald Trump. Thats about the only thing.
So Hillary said and this is an exact quote, and just so you understand, I have many Muslim friends. These are amazing people. Theyre great people. The problem we have is whether its 7% or 9% or 11% or 1%. Were having a tremendous problem in our country. We dont know. There doesnt seem to be assimilation.
We dont know whats going on and theres no reporting. As an example, in San Bernardino, people saw this horrible married couple where they became radicalized. He probably became radicalized through her. But whatever happened. They had bombs on the floor. They had all sorts of weaponry. People knew that bad things were going to happen and they didnt report.
We have to have people report.
And if we have reporting and you go to your law enforcement -- and by the way, our police in this country are so incredible and we have to give them thanks. Theyre so incredible. I just met your chief backstage, the Greensburg Chief and I just met the sheriffs. Nobody is going to mess with those guys. They are great, great people.
The police of our country and theyve been treated terribly. Theyve been treated terribly.
So entire countries in the Middle East living under Islamic law and they engaged in the worst kind of violent oppression, and now we have them coming into our country. So heres the story folks. We have a woman, Hillary Clinton, shes got bad judgment. Bernie Sanders said she cant be president because she has bad judgment, right?
Bad judge.
She doesnt have the temperament. Shell sometimes say, I dont like Donald Trumps tone. She always reads off teleprompters. I dont like -- oh wait a minute, oh yeah. I dont like Donald Trumps tone. I dont like his temperament. Let me tell you folks, I built a great company, unbelievable company. I filed the papers.
Theyre unbelievable. These dishonest people in the back. In fact, we just took -- they are so dishonest. We just took -- theyre so dishonest. We just took the press kit credentials away. I love it. We just took the press credentials away from the dishonest Washington Post. I said -- you know.
I said, why should I have people following me around, sitting up there like big shots and they write very untruthful stories. They write very untruthful stories. So I did it with the Washington Post. Im so happy. I dont know where they -- I said, you can come in. Wheres the Washington Post? Theyre probably somewhere.
Maybe theyre in the back, in the back bleachers. I dont know. OK.
Now look, our federal authorities spend billions of dollars and deploy thousands of agents tracking and disrupting terrorist plots from people that are not really up to any good. Were going to stop it folks. Were going to stop it. Just remember what I said, if I got elected, were going to be fair, were going to be straight, were going to be totally, we are going to be so straight down the middle, straight down the middle in terms of justice, but were not going to let people take advantage of us.
Were going to go to the movie theater. Were going to go on airplanes. Were going to lead our lives like were supposed to lead our lives. Were going to be straight down the middle. Everythings gonna be fair. Theres going to be total justice, but we cant continue to live this way. We cant continue to live this way.
People are going to be afraid to go out. They already are. I mean if you think you feel safer now than you did eight years ago, I think theres probably not anybody in this room that feels that way. So I want to just read something. Did anyone ever hear me do the snake? The snake? I think maybe Ive never seen a time maybe ever where this is so appropriate.
I mean, its so appropriate. Now you have to think of this in terms of Islamic terror. You have to think of it in terms of our border. You have to think of it in terms of all the people that are crossing that are criminals, that are killing people and hurting people. We need borders. If we dont have borders, we dont have a country.
We need borders. We need to have our country back. We want to get our country back. And we want people coming into our country, but they have to come in legally. They have to come in legally. Dont even think about it. Were going to build that wall.
Dont even think about it. And who is going to pay for the wall? Who? 100%, OK? 100%. You know when I had the debates, the big debates, right? And what did I know about debating? Ive been building and employing people and building up a great company and having lots of fun. I didnt want to do this, folks, Ill tell you.
I dont know about you, but up here, its about 110 degrees right now. I didnt want to do this. I would have been very happy had Obama been a great president. I would have been very happy.
You know what, if he were a great president, Im a Republican, Im a conservative, had he been a great president, I would have been very happy and most of the people in this room would have been happy. But you know what, hes been one hell of a lousy president. Hes done a terrible job, a terrible job. He has done a terrible job and were running through weakness and people are laughing at us. All over the world theyre laughing at us.
And when China has a trade deficit, we have with China. Think of it, we have a trade deficit. $505 billion a year. Mexico, $58 billion a year. Japan, so much we dont even know what the hell the number is. Everybody. Vietnam is hot. Theyre all hot. Every country does great.
When you negotiate against the United States, if you cant win, you dont have much going. You dont have much going. And we have to turn it around. Were going to get the greatest -- we have in our country the greatest negotiators in the world. Were not going to make an Iran deal, where we $150 billion.
We should have never given that money back. We should have never ever given that money back. And those prisoners should have been released years ago before we ever started the negotiation, folks, years ago.
We should have gone in -- do you ever see a negotiation, by the way, that takes so long especially since we lost every single point. We never once walked. Every time Id hear, Id say, oh great, Secretary Kerry is going to finally walk.
He didnt walk. The only thing he did is go into bicycle race, 73 years old and fall and break his leg then walk around. Never walked. But you know, had he walk, we would have made a much better deal, had he walked, had he known what he was doing. The Persians are great negotiators. The Iranians are great negotiators.
Not only, by the way, did they make a great deal there, but as sure as -- And I was against the Iraq war from the beginning. You know, Hillary said, oh, can you trust him with the button? Shes the one that wanted to go into Iraq. Ive been against it.
I said, Iraq, if you obliterate their military, you are going to totally destabilize the Middle East and thats exactly what happened.
The Middle East became totally destabilized. And what happened? We got ISIS out of the whole deal. I mean the thinking that weve had for a long time and then Obama the way he got us out. Think of it. He gives a date. Were going to be out by X date. Who the hell would ever say the date. In fact, the other side didnt believe him because they said, nobody could be so stupid as to give a date and then it turned out to be true.
So he got out the wrong way, came out the wrong way. If you remember for years Ive been saying, keep the oil. Shouldnt have been there, but keep the oil. Well, now, ISIS has the oil. Iran is going to have the oil. Theyre all going to have the oil. And then set up just a surgical strike in Syria and Libya and all these different places.
I mean, look, at Libya, a surgical strike maybe but the finest oil among the highest grades of oil in the world. Who has the oil, folks? ISIS has the oil. We dont even do anything to blockade them. Theyre selling the oil. Theyre making a fortune. They cannot believe how lucky they got.
If I get elected, theyre not going to be so lucky anymore, folks. Theyre not going to be so lucky. And when we got out we should have taken -- remember this, when we got out, we should have taken the oil. Ill never forget some of the pundits most often they dont have the brains they were born with. They said, theyre talking about a sovereign country, Iraq, crooked as hell.
How about bringing baskets of money, millions and millions of dollars and handing it out. I wanted to know who are the soldiers that had that job because I think theyre living very well right now, whoever they may be. But think of it, the money that go -- that went out, the money. Weve spent probably probably $4 trillion over the last 15 years in the Middle East.
We build a school. It gets blown up. We build it again and again and again. But if we want a school in Greensboro, if we want a school in Brooklyn, if we want a school in Los Angeles, we have no money. Were flat broke. No longer, folks, no longer. America first, America first. Remember that. Its America first.
Its America first. Were no longer gonna be the stupid people and were not the stupid people, but were led by the stupid people and thats going to end, folks. Thats going to end.
And you know, Ill tell you something, we will have a better relationship with Mexico and China and India and Japan and Vietnam and all of these countries that are taking advantage of us like were a bunch of dummies. You know, we send in our political hacks to negotiate with the smartest people in those countries and this is what the result is. Thats what the result.
We have the smartest, we have the greatest, we have the best negotiators in the world and were going to use them to make these massive deals. And were going to bring our wealth back to our country and were going to save our social security and our Medicare and were going to save our jobs and were going to start making product again.
I mean, I know what happened in North Carolina after NAFTA was signed. And by the way, who signed NAFTA, right? Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. So people said, oh, the economy is pretty good then except the person that happened to follow him and for many years thereafter, we got killed because he signed NAFTA and our jobs and our manufacturing left this country like nobody would believe.
And all you have to do is take a look at North Carolina and all of these old places where you see the buildings today and those people have been gone for many years. That was NAFTA that was signed by Bill Clinton. All right.
So are you ready? So this is called the snake, right? Al Wilson, the great Al Wilson. And its really sort of amazing because it just works. And what you have to do is think about what were getting into. Were letting in hundreds of thousands of people into our country. We dont know anything about him.
We do know though its going to be trouble. And again, it doesnt take a lot, it doesnt take a lot. It takes 2%, 1%, it takes two people. It doesnt take a lot, but its got to be much more than that.
And we are going to see things over the next number of years like youve never seen. I really believe unless Im elected president. I really believe that. Because were going to be very very smart and were going to be very very strong and were not going to be the fools anymore.
So this is called, this is called the snake. Who, by the way, I rarely do it, but who has heard it? Who has heard it? Should I do it again? So think youre border, think of people pouring in, think of people pouring in who you know are going to be trouble at some point, OK? You know theyre going to be trouble all right.
All right, lets go. Ready? Are you ready to -- get him out. Thats all right. Get him out of here. I love our protesters. The only way the cameras show what massive numbers of people we have is if we have our protesters. All right take care of our protest. Please dont hurt our protester. Hes a single protester.
Thats right. Go home to mommy. Bye. Bye.
OK this is called -- All right. OK, lets go. Ready? Think about your border folks, think about your border. Think about people coming into our country. Were going to protect our country. On her way to work one morning, down the path, along the lake, a tender hearted woman saw a poor half frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew.
Oh well, she said, Ill take you in and Ill take care of you.
Take me in oh tender woman, take me in for heavens sake. Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night she soon arrived -- dont worry about it. Get him out.
USA. USA. USA. USA. USA.
All right. Get him out. Thank you. Thank you, officer. Thank you. Dont hurt him. Dont hurt him. You know I criticized every once in a while they think Trump is too tough. Im not tough. Please dont hurt that person. Thats a very nice person.
OK. Gone? Gone? Are they gone? Yeah. Good.
All right. Good. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake shed taken and its been revived. Take me in oh tender woman, take me in, for heavens sake, take me in, oh tender women side, sighed the broken snake.
Now she clutched him to her bosom. Youre so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadnt brought you in by now, my gosh, you would have died. She stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you that snake gave her a vicious fight.
Take me you in oh tender woman, take me in for heavens sake. Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed that vicious snake. I saved you, cried the woman and you bit me. Heavens why? You know your bite is poisonous and now Im going to die. Oh shut up silly woman said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.
So folks, I mean, we know what were getting into and we keep doing it because we dont learn. But we know what were getting into and we cant let it happen. We cant let it happen.
So when I started on this quest. Yeah, get them out. Theyre a little noisy over there. Get them out of here will you please. Get them out.
So so far, in a crowd of like 9,000 or 10,000 people, we have two people that made a little noise. Front page of every paper, Trump rally -- let me tell you folks, my rallies are the safest place on earth. The safest. The safest.
So when I started this quest and I didnt know I was going to do it and I was helped by a lot of people. And you remember Indiana, remember Bobby Knight said, I want to endorse you, Mr. Trump. Youre what we need as president. And boy that was gonna be the fire. Well, boy, did we win Indiana. Big league, right?
That was like Richard Petty. That was something.
But we started and who knew what it would be. We had all these people like this Charles Krauthammer. Oh forget it. Ill never forget. Before I announced, before I announced, I listened to Charles Krauthammer and its like a month before and I told my wife, I said, boy, this sounds tough. He said, this is the single finest group of Republican leaders perhaps in the history of the Republican Party.
This is a great great group of people.
And then he goes, I think he might have said like Donald Trump is not going to run isnt he? So I said, you know, if these people -- I didnt know most of them. I said, if these people are so good, what am I running for? And then one by one, boom, boom, boom. We start off with 17 people, boom, 16, 15, 12, 9. There we go, 8, 7. Then we go 5. Then we go 4. Then we go 3. And we had 3 left and Ill never forget I had one state where I won like 38% of the vote.
And Krauthammer and some others said, he has not broken 50%.
I mean I had like I think 14 or 15 people, right? 14 to 15, how the hell do you break 50%? I mean I think thats like I must have gotten a record. So you have 17 people, you down to 15 or 14 and then you get this this massive number, whatever it might be. And they say, he has not broken 50%. Who the hells Abraham Lincoln could not have broken 50%.
Anyway. So then I won and I kept winning and winning, winning. And then we get to New York and you know whats nice about New York, New York is tough and they know me, right? Isnt it nice that the people that know me the best, the people from New York, they give me a massive victory and we still had three people.
We had three people and I got almost 62% of the vote.
Think of it, with three people. You know, in politics, with two people, if you get 55 to 45, youve -- they call that a massive victory, right? I had three people, I had almost 62%, won almost every county. But before that, I had Florida. You remember Florida, right? So Florida, and I was against Marco Rubio sitting senator, and very very very low energy Jeb Bush, right, right?
I only say that because he signed the pledge but he hasnt endorsed me. I dont really want his endorsement.
But you know what folks, when you sign a pledge, youre supposed to live up to the pledge even if you dont like Donald. I mean, hes got good reason not to like me I guess. Dont forget, he raised in his fund, his pack $168 million. So think of this, I spent the least and I got the best result in a landslide.
Isnt that what you want as your president? I spent the least and I got the best result.
I remember New Hampshire. I love New Hampshire. New Hampshire, in fact, I just gave -- yesterday, I was in New Hampshire, gave the speech on what happened this horrible horrible weekend in Orlando. And New Hampshire has been a special place because that was my first victory. And I remember so vividly talking to the people of New Hampshire, we had these massive crowds.
Its different because you dont have rooms as big as this for the most part. But people, thousands of people were in the room and then standing outside. And Id meet with smaller groups and Id say, well, whats the big problem?
They say, heroin. I say heroin, what are you kidding? Heroin? They said, its a massive problem in New Hampshire. Its a massive problem all over. And it comes in through the southern border and thats why were going to build the wall. And the -- by the way, by the way, the Border Patrol agents 16,500 border patrol agents four weeks ago endorsed Donald Trump.
First time in their history that they endorsed a presidential candidate. First time in the history.
So Ill never forget it. And I said to the people of New Hampshire, we are going to work hard. Number one, were going to stop it and number two, were going to work hard to get your youth and everybody else hooked on this crap get them better because we have to make them better. Theres so many people and it comes in and it pours in.
And you know, I was saying before, so during the debates, I didnt know about debating. I didnt know. And yet, I was center stage for every single debate. And according to Drudge, who, by the way, is an incredible man, a credible guy. According to Drudge and Time Magazine and Slate, and like seven others, they do polls now for everything.
I think Ive made polling a very important thing. I never used to hear about polls. All of a sudden -- because I liked them.
But according to all of these online polls that are taken immediately after the debates, I won every single poll of every single debate. How did that happen? OK. And again, I was center stage, and it used to make me very angry when Fox and CNN -- Now get him out. Get him out. Get him out of here, folks.
You can get him out. Thank you. Dont hurt him. Be very very kind. Be very very gentle. We get criticized. We want to be very gentle. Unlike the people that we see outside, where theyre burning the American flags, folks, where theyre burning the American flag. You can get them out. Thank you very much.
Unless he wants to stay, hes got a very weak voice. If you want you could stay. Thank you. Thank you.
His parents are going to be so angry at him tonight. So I was center stage and I was a little bit upset, whether it be Fox or CNN or any of them ABC, I said, look, if Im a center stage, the only thing I asked for, I want an odd number, I dont want an even number. Because if its an even number, we have two people center stage and thats not fair.
So I thought, but you know what Ive done, Ive done something because I am the messenger. Im not -- I dont even want to say the leader of this group.
We have this all over the United States. Wherever we go. We went to Dallas. We went to 35,000 people in Mobile Alabama. No matter where we go, we have the biggest crowds, far bigger than Bernie Sanders, who was, by the way, second offer. But we have the biggest crowds. And what I am is the messenger. We have got a movement going and its a movement based on taking our country back and running our country intelligently, smartly and being respected all over the world again because were not respected right now by anybody.
Were not respected by anybody.
So Im running against a person that I think is totally unfit and totally unqualified. And Bernie Sanders said this, totally unqualified to be president. Now a new book just came out by the Secret Service, the person that was with her. You have to hear what he said. I mean, I hope the book sells.
Im sure the mainstream media wont be writing much about the book. But its a new book. And it says, she doesnt have the judgment. She doesnt have the character. She was like a screaming maniac. Folks, we would be making one hell of a mistake. Ill tell you what. If Hillary Clinton becomes president, I dont know that our country will ever ever come back.
I mean it.
Now remember one thing. So important. Judge Scalia, Justice Scalia, who is a great guy. He died unexpectedly. So we have one, we have one slot already and if liberal Democrats get in and put the people that they want in there, its a whole different world, including guns, by the way. You can forget about your guns.
You can forget about your guns.
The NRA endorsed me. The NRA a few weeks ago endorsed me. I believe, its the earliest endorsement in the history of these races. And we are going to protect our Second Amendment. Were going to protect our Second Amendment.
Hillary Clinton effectively wants to abolish the second amendment. She wants to take your guns away. And believe me, shes trying to get out of that position. Take a look at what she said. Just like what she said before I went to West Virginia. A few weeks before she said, were going to take away the mines and were going to take away the jobs from the miners.
How about that for brains?
And then four weeks later, shes in West Virginia and she didnt registered too well there folks. Were going to bring back our miners. Were going to bring back our jobs into this country. Were going to bring back our jobs into this country. Big league.
So heres the story. We have a country that we love, but we have a country thats gone astray. We dont win anymore. We dont win with Sergeant Bergdahl. Remember, Sergeant Bergdahl? Remember?
We get Bergdahl. This is a typical Obama trait. I call him the five-for-one president. We get Bergdahl and they get five of the worst killers that they wanted for nine years who are now back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody, including this group right here. Im not going to let it happen, folks.
Were not going to let -- this is the deal we make. And by the way, probably five and maybe six people, wonderful young military people were killed looking for Bergdahl after he deserted.
OK? Think of it. Now in the old days, you know what would have happened to him, right? Quickly in the old days. Ten years ago, it wouldnt have been pretty but he would have lived. And today, theyre talking about maybe nothing is going to happen to him because this is where weve come. This is where weve come to. We cannot continue to be politically correct.
We cannot continue with this. Whats happening to our country is devastating, folks. Its devastating and its embarrassing and our lives will never be the same. Thats why what we have to do is in November, we have to get out and vote. And this State is looking very good.
I have to tell you, North Carolina, were looking very close just like we did in the primary. I remember, I remember in the primary, I wasnt really favored to win. But I remember I went to make a speech in North Carolina, in the Charlotte area, and the crowd was like unbelievable. And I came back to my people, I said, you know, I think were going to win.
Thats not like the second place finisher crowd. And we won easily, as we did in many many other states.
And by the way, speaking of that, we, we, not me, we have received more votes in the primaries than any other person in the history of the Republican Party. Think of it. Pretty amazing. Its pretty amazing.
Almost 14 million votes. Weve received almost 14 million votes think of it. I mean, thats pretty good. Im very proud of that. Ronald Reagan, who we love. We received many more than Ronald Reagan. More than Nixon, more than Bush, more than Eisenhower, Dwight Eisenhower. I mean, he won the Second World War, folks, you know, I mean.
So were very proud of that.
In addition to that, the Republican Party was up almost 70% in terms of voter turnout and the Democrats despite all you hear about Bernie, by the way, it looks like Bernies gone folks. Looks like hes gone. Crazy Bernie, I guess, hes gone. So now were only out Pocahontas to think about because I think, you know -- I think maybe it could be Pocahontas.
I hope so. I hope its Pocahontas.
They said, Mr. Trump, thats a terrible thing. Would you apologize? No. They want me to apologize. They want me to apologize. I have to. No. But I did. I did. Can you believe it? I apologized. I said, Id like to apologize to Pocahontas through. Its true. The great Pocahontas.
So folks, we have to win. We dont win anymore. We dont win on trade. We dont win with the military. We cant beat ISIS. We dont win anymore. Were going to start winning like youve never seen before. Were going to win with our military. Were going to kick the hell out of ISIS. We have no choice.
Were going to win on trade. Were going to make great deals. Were going to bring our money back. Were going to bring our jobs back. Were not going to let people take our companies so easily anymore.
Were going to win on trade. Were going to win at the border were going to build a wall. Mexicos going to pay for the wall. Theyre going to be very happy to pay for it. Theyre going to be very very happy to pay for the wall, believe me. They make so much money off us. That wall is peanuts. Peanuts compared to the money.
Dont forget, a few weeks ago, Vincente de Fox, he was the former president of Mexico. And years ago, he was saying, they will never build a wall. Talking about me. They would never build a wall.
Well then a few weeks ago he said, there is no way that were going to pay for that. And then he said, f bomb. He used the f bomb on live television, on CNN. He used the f bomb. Can you imagine if I used the f bomb?
It would be like the electric chair, right? I get the electric. He used the f bomb. Theres no way. The anger, the anger and the hatred. Theres no way that Mexico is going to pay for that f bomb wall. And I was so happy. First, I was surprised that he used the word. I figured this is gonna be a big scandal all over the world.
And the next day nobody said anything about it, right, that he used the word. But I said, you know, whats the good news? A few years ago, he said, theres no way were going to allow the world to be built.
Well, now hes given up on that. Now all we have to do is get him to pay for it, which will be so easy. So easy.
Dont forget, the wall is a fraction, a little fraction of the cost of these yearly trade deficits. So were going to do fine and were going to have a great relationship with Mexico. Were going to have a very good relationship. We are going to have a better relationship with Mexico and China than we have right now and all of them.
Look at China, theyve ripped us left. Theyve ripped us right. Theyve taken our jobs. Theyve taken on manufacturing. They dumped their product all over the place and they dont even like us. And what did they do? They go to the South China Sea and they build one of the great and big fortresses of the weather.
Theyre not supposed to be doing that, folks. They have no respect, whatsoever. Nobody respects our country anymore.
So heres the story, were going to win with our military. Were going to win at the border. Were going to win on trade. Were going to save our Second Amendment, thats so important, so important. Were going to appoint great judges that are going to keep our country running and running maybe even better than ever before.
Because the next president could have five, probably three, could go to four, but you could even have five judges, five justices of the Supreme Court. And I already put a list out and everybody is very impressed with that.
So what were going to do, folks, were going to start winning. Were going to repeal and replace Obamacare, which is a total disaster. And if you look at your premiums, and if you looked at your deductible, its so high that unless you live a really long horrible death, youre never going to get to use it. The deductibles are so high.
Its a disgrace. Obamacare is a major failure. We repeal it. We replace it. We repeal Common Core. We bring our education local.
And this is for the people of North Carolina because you folks were great to me. It was early on and we won big. Were going to start winning again in this country. Youre going to respect your president. And I dont care so much about that, but youre going to again respect your country and whats happening in your country.
And we are going to start winning again. Were going to win at every single level. Were going to win so much that youre going to beg me, please, Mr. President, were winning too much. We cant stand it, Mr. President. We can not stand it. Please, a little less winning, Mr. President.
