Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Moon Township, Pennsylvania|March 10, 2018
I love this place. Hello, Pittsburgh. Hello, Pittsburgh. You know what? Do me a favor, get out on Tuesday, vote for Rick Saccone, and we can leave right now. Come on. We dont have to spend any time. Great guy.
Im thrilled to be back in Pennsylvania, where I went to school, went to college with so many hard-working American patriots. Youre great people. Great. Pennsylvania is the state that gave us American independence, American freedom, and what else? American steel. American steel. Theyve been talking a little bit about steel over the last -- little while, havent they? And were saving the steel, and a lot of steel mills are now opening up because of what I did.
And not all of my friends on Wall Street loved it. But we love it, because we know what it does. Many plants have just announced over the last few days that theyre expanding, opening. Steel is back. Its going to be back to, steel is back, and aluminum is back, gonna be back. And on November 8, Pennsylvania is the state that gave us the 45th President of the United States. And I think were doing a good job for you. I hope so. Were working hard.
Its not easy. That Washington D.C., it got a lot of evil there, but were getting it out step by step. A lot of evil, a lot of bad people, a lot of bad people, lot of fake media, look at them. A lot of fake media, fake, fake media.
You know, its funny, I dont know if you saw it, but weve had a problem for years with North Korea. Fact, President Obama said, it was the biggest problem we had. And South Korea went there. We put very, very strong sanctions and lots of other things weve been doing.
Right from the first day I was in office, and South Korea came to my office after having gone to North Korea and seeing Kim Jong-un, and... no, its very positive, no. After the meeting you may do that, but now we have to be very nice because, lets see what happens, lets see what happens. So the South Korean top people, top representatives, they walked out -- the White House, to a throng of these characters.
Big, big group, and everybody wanted to find out what happened. Now they just left North Korea and look, North Koreas tough, theyre testing nuclear weapons, theyre doing a lot of things. A lot of -- this should have been handled by the way, over the last 30 years, not now. Thats what it should have been here.
They shouldnt handle it. They should have been handled, and everybody will say it too. But thats okay, because thats what we do, we handle things. And these guys came out and they said that, Your President has done a great job. I might say.
But -- well Ill tell you, we did a great job in the Olympics. President Moon of South Korea said Without Donald Trump, the Olympics would have been a total failure. Its true, so, you know, might as well say it. Nobody else is gonna say it, right? Might as well say it.
Little hard to sell tickets. Would you think youre going to be nuke. But when North Korea called, and they said Wed like to be in the Olympics. Everybody said Lets buy tickets, lets go. I would have gone. And it became a very, very successful Olympics.
Honestly, South Korea did a great job and it was great to see North Korea going and participating, and there was a nice unity. It was really a nice thing. But when the South Korean representatives, who just left North Korea, came outside, big throng of press, they announced that North Korea, Kim Jong-un, would like to meet with President Trump. Now, if this is it, this doesnt happen.
You know, they say Oh well, Obama could have done that. Trust me, he couldnt have done that. He wouldnt have done that. He would not have done it. And by the way, neither would Bush and neither would Clinton, and they had their shot and all they did was nothing. Hey.
Well, Clinton gave away billions and billions of dollars and as soon as they made the deal the following day, they started working on making more nukes okay, so that wasnt. Thats not the great deal. Never see the story where Im -- its 1999, Im on Meet the Press, a show now, headed by sleepy eyes, Chuck Todd, hes a sleeping son of a bitch, Ill tell you. And they showed it this morning, 1999 and Im talking about North Korea.
You got to take them out now and then they have Clinton saying We are pleased to announce that we have made a deal with North Korea. Well, you know how that deal turned out, right? We gave billions and billions of dollars and lots of other things, and we got nothing. But they show me young, handsome. I said Why couldnt I look like that today? I should have run back then, right?
Huh? I should have run back then, I would have done this earlier. So -- but they had me, literally, saying I dont know if anybodys to it . They played a lot but literally saying to a very good guy, actually but saying that we got to do something about North Korea.
That was when it wasnt in vogue and then they have Clinton giving everything away and then they show -- and here we are today with a man -- whos nuked up all over the place. But weve been very strong and very vigilant, and now lots of good things, I think are gonna happen, but well see. But the funny thing -- so, they announced that hes not going to send missiles up anymore until through the meetings. Well, think of that, you know, we were losing -- were getting a lot of missile sent.
I wouldnt say Japan was thrilled, missiles flying over Japan. Theyre very happy with what Im doing. And, who else could do it? I mean, honestly, who do you think?
Theyre not going to send missiles up, think of it. Theyre not sending missiles up, and I believe that, I believe that, I really do. I think they want to do something. I think they want to make peace, I think its time. And I think weve shown great strength, I think thats also important, right?
And -- and I must tell you, President Xi of China has really helped us a lot. Theyve really helped us and because 93% of the goods come in through China going into Korea, North Korea. Ninety-three percent. So, thats pretty powerful, and theyve been very good.
They could have done more, but thats okay, Id say to him Youve been great. You could do more. But theyve done a lot. Theyve done more.
China has done more for us than they have ever done for any other President or ever done for this country, and I respect that. I res... cause need that. Stopping the flow of goods, its very important. And we put sanctions on.
So they come out, White House, many of these same characters that I see, I see those faces, I see those faces. And for the first two hours, it was unbelievable. This is amazing. This is incredible.
I cant believe this is happening. You know, because we go from like a lot of people, thought were going to war and all of a sudden they come in, they say Were gonna have a meeting. And theres no more missiles going off and they want to denuclearize. Nobody had heard that, nobody thought -- but they said they want to -- They are thinking about that. Who knows whats gonna happen?
Hey, who knows? It happens, if it doesnt happen. I may leave fast or we may sit down and make the greatest deal for the world and for all of these countries, including, frankly, North Korea and thats where I hope happens. But the press, for two hours, is going This is fantastic, this is amazing. A certain anchor on CNN, fake as hell CNN, the worst.
Ugh. So fake, fake news. And the ratings are lousy by the way and compared to Fox their ratings. And a certain anchor, female, said This is really something he would go down as a truly great President if this happened. Okay, but all of them is saying This is amazing.
This is incredible. Did you hear what they just said? They just said de-nuke. They just said all of these things. They just said no more missiles.
They said they want to meet with President Trump. It was -- they couldnt believe it. The worst of them CNN, MSNBC, which is -- which is worse than I -- I think I have a new -- MSNBC, third rate, and NBC, which is horrible. Their newscast, by the way, is not doing well on NBC network, theyre heading down the tubes.
But -- but listen to this, I did The Apprentice on NBC for 14 seasons. I made a lot of money for them. We had a big successful show. Arnold Schwarzenegger failed when he did The Apprentice and hes a movie star.
Martha Stewart failed when she did The Apprentice, and I just kept chugging along every year was a big hit. I mean, I did The Apprentice, made him a lot of money, gave him good ratings when they were absolutely dying and they did nothing but kill me. NBC is perhaps worse than CNN, I have to tell you. And MSNBC is horrible.
So here they are. Theyre outside, these wonderful representatives, very high-level from South Korea are saying all of these things de-nuke and all of the things that they cant believe, because its like five years ahead of schedule. Before this they would say, Well that will never happen, and this will never happen, and youll never get them for -- Stop. You know, with the missiles.
Theyre saying all of this. Now they say, they want to stop the missiles, they want to denuclearize. They want to do all of these things, and all of these people are like, they cant believe it. Its unbelievable.
I said to my wife, I said, you know, its amazing, theyre really nice to -- Its really amazing. Theyre ll saying this is an incredible achievement. This is okay. Then I get up in the morning.
So time goes by, right? Same people, theyre, saying Not that big a deal, anybody could have done it. Obama could have done it. Obama had a chance. No, no. Theyre saying, Obama. Obama. Obama. Obama was driving you down.
You take a look at those numbers before we took over, they were heading down. So, so just let me say, so I wake up. So its so nice and Im looking forward to watching in the morning. And I go -- I mean literally, theyre saying, Well, Clinton could have met.
Clinton gave away the house. I got nothing. And Bush, Bush, Bush, another great Republican. He got us into the middle east. That was great -- We spent $7 trillion in the middle east over a 17-year period, $7 trillion as of three months ago. Okay. Well, you know, what they did, that was like taking a big stone and throwing it into a hornets nest, but were bringing it back. ISIS?
We have 98% of the Caliphate of the land, 98. So I woke up when I saw all these reports that, you know, anybody could have done it. Oh yes, sure. Anybody could have gotten President Xi, President for life. That was another one.
So hes President for life. It happened two days ago. And I was joking. I was at a, a roast actually, but I was joking and I said, Ha, President for life, that sounds good. Maybe were gonna have to try it. President for life. But Im joking, but Im joking. And they knew I was.
Everybody there was laughing, everybodys having a great time, Im joking about being President for life. A couple of who went back, Donald Trump with his dictatorial attitude. Now wants to be President for life. You know, straight fake news. Fake. Horrible.
But you know whats gonna happen? Did you see the other day, 96% of what they do? All I do is good stuff.The economy is the best its ever been. Youre coal -- By the way, folks, some of you are in the coal world.
Your coal is coming back. Big, big, big, big, your steel is coming back, your steel is coming back. Those plants are going to be opening, and what weve done with the 25% tariffs for those guys that come in and dump their steel all over the place, and by the way, its not good steel, you guys know what I mean, its crap. But your steel is coming back. Its all coming back.
And six months prior to the election in 2020, every one of those guys, we really endorsed Donald Trump. We think he has to, and you know why? Because if I dont win the election, their ratings are gonna go so far down, theyre gonna be out of business, every one of them. Can you imagine, can you imagine covering Bernie or Pocahontas. Pocahontas? How about that? Pocahontas. Can you imagine these guys?
Some of them were actually smiling, but some of them just cant stand it honestly, some of them they cant take it. Can you imagine having to cover Elizabeth Warren before news? You know, I was watching during the campaign and Hillary was sitting right there and Pocahontas was up and she was so angry. Look. We love each other, the women, the men, we love each other, everybody loves -- She was so angry.
I said, You know, I think shes losing the entire male audience and many of the women. She was going at it and Hillary sitting there saying, Oh, my god, what did I do here? This is -- But can you imagine if they had to cover some of these people that are running, I think any of them to be honest with you, I think any of them. Oh, Id love Oprah to win, Id love to beat Oprah. I know her weakness. No, no, I know her weakness. I -- Id know her.
You know, I know her very well. I was on her last show, were one of the last -- I guess the last week, she had Donald Trump and Donald Trumps family, my-my-my, weve come down a long way, havent we? Im now President, and probably, you know, but -- but think of it. I know her weakness. Wouldnt we love to run against Oprah? I would love it. I would love it. That would be a painful experience for her. So weve created three million. Thank you, darling.
Oh, theyre positive. I thought they were negative, theyre positive. Thats always the problem. We have a room thats packed, if we have one person, and thats actually a fan, by the way, thats a fan over there, folks. But if we have one person that speaks it, its like a big deal the next day, so weve created three million jobs since Election day, nobody thought that was possible.
We passed the largest tax cuts and reform in American history. Weve created more than 300,000 new jobs alone last month, and you saw the numbers yesterday. Yesterdays numbers job reports was among the best numbers ever produced in the history of our country, in the history of our country. In fact, my guys,  in fact, my guys, came into my office and they gave me the number because, if you add the previous month, which was adjusted upward by 52,000 jobs, they were low last month. It adjusted upward.
So were like over 360,000 jobs, and I said, Let me ask you, is that a mistake? I dont think Ive ever s -- You know if you get 160, its good. We were at 360, so I looked at my guys, I said, Is that a type of graphical error, what is that? But you saw it, was one of the best reports, and you know the amazing thing? Wages went up a little bit, you havent had wages in 19 years. Wages are starting to go up. Think of it. Wages. I mean, how good is that?
Wages starting to go up. African-American unemployment has reached the lowest level in history. The lowest. You know, African-American -- and Im very proud of that.
African-American unemployment, two months ago reached the lowest level in history and then last month that went up a little bit, right? And I made the mistake because I didnt know it went up and it wasnt quite as good, but it wasnt historic. So, I was in a different month and I said African unemployment is the lowest level in history. They killed me, because it was the previous month, but heres the good news the new month brought it down to the lowest level. So now its a lowest level.
Hispanic unemployment is the lowest level. Think of that. Hispanic unemployment is the lowest level in history. Women, women, we love you, we love you.
Hey, didnt we surprise them with women during the election. Remember? Women wont like Donald Trump. I said, Have I really had that kind of a problem? I dont think so. But, Women wont like Donald Trump.
It will be a rough night for Donald Trump because the women wont come out. We got 52%, right? Fifty-two, right? And Im running against a woman. You know, thats not that easy.
A hundred and fifty-five million people are now employed that is, came out this morning, that is the highest level of employment in the history of our country, 155 million, think of that, right?  While the Obama administration in its final year was losing 1,000 manufacturing jobs a month. Weve created almost 300,000 new manufacturing jobs. Think of that.
Think of that. The tasks for all of us, for everyone here tonight, is to make sure that this great American comeback continues full speed ahead.  We are doing things that are amazing. You know, Make America Great Again, right?
Make America Great Again, right? So you know what the new slogan is gonna be? I wont tell you, weve got to keep it secret, except did you ever see so much press? Wow.
You know what the new slogan will be? Because I cant use it in three years from now. I cant say -- Very good. I cant use it. I cant go like, in four years and say, Heres my slogan., which is now two and a half years, well have to start thinking right.
Its getting close, we cant say, Make America Great Again. cause I already did that, right? Right? So, right? So our, not my slogan, our slogan, this is a team. Our new slogan will be -- and you know this is on the assumption that happens, which Im almost positive, can never be 100% sure.
I never like to go too far in advance, but lets assume its going like its going, by the way, if we coasted for two and a half years we did a hell of a job. You know that. Fact I was telling some of the guys, lets just coast, because the stock market is up almost 40% since election day, think of that. Almost 40%.
Think of that. And by the way thats not rich people, thats for everybody. I mean, you have your 401ks, which are up 42%, 38%, I tell it all the time. I take pictures back with the policemen. I love the policemen, I love the firemen, theyre great.
Alright, and theyre always coming up and saying, Sir, thank you very much. My 401k is up 41%. My wife thinks Im a genius. They think like theyre great investors, okay. But theyre up way, way up, and thats good. Thats really good. Thats what we want. Thats what we want. Thats what we have to have. Were so proud of this country.
But our new slogan, when we start running in -- can you believe it two years from now? is going to be Keep America Great. Exclamation point. Keep America Great. But we can only do that if we elect people who are going to back our agenda and fight for our values, and that is why we have to defeat Nancy Pelosi  and Maxine Waters, a very low IQ individual.
Do you ever see her? You never seen a -- you ever see her? We will impeach him, we will impeach the press, but he hasnt done anything wrong. It doesnt matter, we will impeach him, shes a low IQ individual.
You cant help her, too early. We will impeach her. But you have Maxine Waters and you have plenty of others. And I mean, Nancy Pelosi, you cant have that. And Conor Lamb Lamb the Sham, right? Lamb the Sham, hes trying to act like a Republican, so he gets -- he wont give me one vote. Look, I dont know him, looks like a nice guy. I hear hes nice-looking. I think Im better looking than him. I do, I do, I do.
And hes slightly younger than me, slightly. No, I heard that, then I saw, hes OK. Hes alright. Personally, I like Rick Saccone, and I think hes handsome.
And you did a great job on television today. I watched you, Rick. That was a great interview. That was a great interview. I appreciate it too, but hes really good.
Heres the thing, were dealing with people that want to obstruct. They want to stop us from doing things. We put an infrastructure bill in for $1.7 billion, and I hear they want to stop it. They want to stop DACA. DACA is their issue, but Im willing to go along, get it done.
Weve got to get it done, right? Get it done, and besides that, you know, honestly, we need good great workers in our country, because Im bringing a lot of companies into this country. Were not gonna have workers for it. We have to bring them in, but DACA theyre here, theyre good people, and the Democrats are trying to not do so.
I offered a deal that was so good, you cant refuse, right? Like the mob pictures. Ill give you a deal thats so good, you cant refuse. I made a deal, I gave them a deal so good, they could not refuse. And I did it because I thought they were gonna refuse, and they did, and theyre getting killed now by the DACA recipients.
Theyre getting killed. But somebody like Lamb, hes never gonna vote for us. Hes now saying -- and I appreciate his nice words about me -- this -- is Trump country, right, so he has to say nice. Okay.
Hes smart, so hes saying nice things. Heres the problem, as soon as he gets in, hes not gonna vote for us, hes gonna vote the party line he has to. And if he doesnt hes never going to a chairman of a committee, hes now, you know, its a whole crazy system, but hes going to vote the party line. He doesnt care about us, but for getting your votes hes talking about how much he likes tariffs, which is my baby, and I took a lot of heat over that.
But let me tell you all, these countries now are calling up, We dont want the tariffs. What do we have to do? European Union, they kill us. Sounds good. A lot of us came from the European Union, different countries, right? Sounds nice.
They kill us on trade, so we put on tariffs and the European Unions out there well were gonna put, I said you cant go any higher than you are anyway, and they have trade barriers. We cant even sell our farming goods in there, they totally restrict us.
So then they say, We want those tariffs taken off. I said, Good. Open up the barriers and get rid of your tariffs, and if you dont do that, were gonna tax, Mercedes-Benz, were gonna tax BMW. You want to have money, we want to have money, come into our country, and you know the cars are really the big item. Thats the big money item.
So when I said that all of a sudden, its like whoa, lets stop talking with this guy. You know, with the European Union were like $100 billion down because we had stupid politicians doing so pathetic, right?
A hundred, think of 100 billion, by the way, were really -- Ive always said 71 billion, but Mexico were 130 billion. Thats a real number because nobody includes the VAT tax. Nobody even knows what about taxes, but Mexico charges a 16% VAT tax. So nobody ever talks about it. You know theyd do it.
That deal was bad the day they made it because they had a tax and we didnt. So they have a 16% VAT tax. Nobody ever talks about it, but I talk about it. So were either going to renegotiate NAFTA, and I said, we wont put the tariffs on Mexico and Canada and Canadas brutal, Canadas really tough. They, you know, we have a big deficit with Canada too.
They send in timber, they send in steel. They send in a lot of things, but our farmers in Wisconsin are not treated well when we want to send things to them. Hey, and I dont blame them. Why should I blame them? Because they just out-smarted our politicians for decades and I dont mean Obama.
I mean all of them. Since Bush the first, and that includes, I mean, that includes a lot of territory. Frankly, Ronald Reagan, you remember, I didnt love his -- I thought he was great. I loved his style, his attitude.
He was a great cheerleader for our count -- you know, for the country, but not great on the trade. For many, many years, theyve been -- thats where they -- you know. We used to be a nation of tariffs. When other countries would come to the United States, they had a pay for the privilege of taking our product, of taking our jobs. They had a pay, they wanted to come in and sell their product, they had a pay.
Today, in China, they sell a car to us, they paid 2.5%. We sell a car in China, which by the way, is almost impossible to do despite the tax, its 25 %. So why is that 25 and were 2.5? And thats why we have a trade deficit with China of $500 billion a year? Its no good, but were changing it and it takes a little while.
Im there a year, a little more than a year, were changing.  We have to. We have a trade deficit. We have a trade deficit with all countries of the world. Listen to this number, if theres any children in the room, please close your ears.
We have a trade deficit of almost $800 billion a year. Now, who makes these deals? So with Mexico -- he says Obama,  Honestly, in all fairness to Obama, its more than Obama, its plenty of people, believe me. Plenty of Presidents allowed that to happen, and people that work for the President, so were gonna get a lot of things straightened away.
NAFTA is under work right now, and I think theyre going to be very good. And you saw what I did with the tariffs. They said, We dont want to pay tariffs. I said, Lets make a deal on NAFTA. And if you make a decent deal, a fair deal for the American worker, the American people. We will. You have no problem with the tariffs.
I said the same thing to the European Union. I said, Look, youre killing us were losing $100 billion a year. Youre not accepting our product. Theyre not accepting our farm product. I want to help the farmers, and they dont accept it.
And I said, Open up your countries. Thats countries, they banded together. Why did they band together? To screw the United States on trade, and thats okay, theyre allowed, you know, actually here would be called the monopoly, it wouldnt be allowed. But all those countries got together in order to do well on trade with the United States.
People dont know that. You know, you hear European Union sounds, Oh, the European Union, sounds so innocent. Its not innocent, theyre very tough, theyre very smart. Where theres $100 billion a year. They sell stuff into us.
We charge them practically, nothing. We sell things into them, no.1. You cant get it through the barriers, they have artificial barriers. Thats not a monetary barrier, thats other things, environmental. They come up with things you wouldnt even believe.
But we cant get our product in there. So I said, Open up your barriers, get rid of your tariffs and well do this. Well have a nice, fair, open -- and if you dont do that, thats okay. And thats where the cars come in. So, we have a lot of work to do. But I need people that can help me and this guy can really help me.
This guy can really help me,  Rick Saccone, and Ive got him too and hes got a tough race and hes got a tough race. I think we won by 22 points, and Rick, you know, look its a crazy time out there, its crazy, but I think the Republicans. You know you never hear this. So, Ive been -- in fact, I think shes here, Karen Handel, wheres Karen, was she here? She was here.
Where is she? Did I do a good job, huh, in Atlanta? So, Karen, is this sort of like, around this Karen was down, she started off with a whole group of people. Its a little different voting. She had running for Congress in Atlanta, the Atlanta area, right?
So they had a guy, a young guy who spent $34 million. Thats still the old time world record, right? Running to be a congressman. They make 150,000 bucks a year. He spent 34 million.
Theres something going on, right? So Ka-, I didnt know you were here. Somebody said you may be here, thats so great, Karen. So Karen was running with many Republicans. It was like 14, 13 Republicans, which is crazy and Karen was the one I wanted.
But thats a lot of Republicans. So Karen ended up with about 14 or 15. This guy ended. He was 58, 58, which meant he would have won the election, there was no more runoff, right?
And we came after him, right? We came after that guy and we found out a couple of like, minor things. He didnt live in the district. I heard.
They said, Sir, he doesnt live in the district, but nobody cares about that or said really, lets try it on the voter. So, anyway, you have to get 50, in which case the elections over. If you get less than 50, you have a runoff and you take the top two. So Karen was fantastic, but she was with so many Republicans and he was essentially the only Democrat. So I brought him down, in a period of four days, I got no credit for this from these guys, brought him down from 58 to 48.
So now hes in a runoff with Karen, so think of it hes at 48 shes at 15. By the time Karen and I finished with this guy, 32 million he spent, and she spent slightly less than that. Okay, she spent like like about 29 million less, right. She spent 29 million less, but by the time we finished, the winner, easily by 5 points, was Karen Handel. .
And they love the job shes doing, and I think youre gonna have a good victory now, but the people have gotten to know you and they love you in your area and hope I dont have to go and make speeches all over the place like last night. But we need Karen, and we need, we need our Congressman Saccone. We have to have him. . We have to happen.
Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, the only chance shes got to become Speaker, is electing Democrats, and you know what, we dont have a big margin. Its just a very small. If you -- I mean, theyre doing a number in your state. You see what theyre doing with the congressional districts, theyre doing a number, and hopefully the United States Supreme Court will take that case, because this is horrible what theyve done. They had state judges that are Democrats, change your voting districts.
What kind of stuff is that? What kind of stuff? And its gonna make it very hard for Republicans that are great Republicans that would easily win, and now its all changed and its very unfair. Lets see what happens. Its litigation, its in court.
Lets see what happens, but its very unfair. The people of Pittsburgh cannot be conned by this guy Lamb. You just cant do it because hes -- again, hes never gonna vote for us. He can say, I love President Trump. I agree with everything he says. You know what, I dont want to meet him, because anybody that says that, I might like him and then Rick is gonna, be very angry at me, right?
No, hes going around saying it, but hes not gonna do that stuff. Hes not gonna do it. Theres no way hes going for the things? That is what he says, Im not gonna vote for Pelosi. Hes not.
Now that could be possible, but most people are, most people are, but he says hes not going to do that. Hes going to do this to steel, hes going to do that here. Well, the Democrats are opposed to those things. Hes weak on crime, hes weak on the border, hes weak on the Second Amendment, but all of a sudden he got strong, and by the way, in terms of abortion, take a look at his record. Take a look.
Its amazing hes come back, oh well, take a look at his record, because where his record is, thats where hes going. So Pelosis party in Congress is full of people, who tell their voters one thing during the election and they go to Washington and vote lockstep.
You know the one thing I noticed about them and Ive been there now for 14 months, 14 months. Can you be -- but have we done a lot? Yeah. A lot of stuff.  We have done more than any first-term administration in the history of our country, we have. You take a look at what were going. Regulation, tax cuts, federal judges, a great, great Supreme Court justice corps. Great.
Look what weve done. Look what weve done. And you know what, we passed the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. Didnt get one Democrat vote, didnt get one, and by the way, how good is that kicking in, remember? Remember? We passed it. We didnt get one Democrat vote, think of that. Not one.
And now theyre all, a little, they get a little nervous, thats okay. But we didnt get one, and you know what helped? When AT&T and the big companies came, they started paying thousands and thousands of dollars in bonuses to, you know, millions of people, I think its up to five million people now, and that was not in the schedule, but theyre paying the money out and the people are getting the money, and Ill tell you what, were so proud of that. But we also got rid of the individual mandate from Obamacare, which basically guts out Obamacare.
Thatll be next. Thatll be next. Thats where you pay a lot of money for the privilege of not getting health care. Okay?
How do you like that one? How that one made it through court, I will not made it through twice. But you pay a lot of money for the privilege, so we got rid of the individual mandate. Nobody even talks about because the tax bill is so massive, bigger than Reagan and bigger than -- biggest one ever done, and you know they were calling a tax reform. This is where a non-politician like me is good, because they had a name and for 40 years they couldnt pass anything, and I kept saying, How is it possible not to pass tax cuts?
Sir, I dont know, we just cant pass. Its been Reagan was the last one that did a big bill and we just cant pass. I said, Well, whats the problem? Well, sir, the tax reform is not easy. I said, Wait a moment, do you call a tax reform, or do you call it tax cuts?  Then he said -- Right? and he said, No, sir. We call it tax reform because were doing a lot of reforming. I said, Look, people dont know what reform means.
Neither do I. People want tax cuts, they dont know, they dont know. They want tax cuts.  They want tax cuts and honestly the word reform, it could mean youre gonna triple your taxes, were gonna reform taxes and trip -- I said, Nobody knows what it means. It could be really bad. So they said, You know, we never thought if this after 40 years. Nobody ever thought of it.
So they said, Could you come up with the name? And I did. You know what it was called? The tax cut, cut, cut cut bill. But I must tell you, and on this I think they were right, the politicians thought that was a little hokey, so we call it the Tax US Tax Cut and Jobs bill, which is nice, which is nice.
And we got it passed. We had unanimous, unanimous in the Republican Party and unanimous for the Democrats and by the way, youre gonna have a great man running as a Republican for the Senate.
While were here, Rick, we should say it, right? Sweet Lou, right? Hes going to be great, hes got a chance. He is, he is with you all the way, he loves this state.
He loves the people and will be out fighting for him very, very hard. Okay, you know who that is, you know, but hes going to be running and hes good, hes running already, hes running very hard, hes going to be fantastic. So we passed the tax cuts. We didnt have one Democrat vote, I think of that. So I think they can have a problem.
Now, historically, after a Presidential election, the other side, like always wins, and Ive told you, youve heard the story. Because people become complacent, you had a victory. You elected your President, you like you, but you like me. I think so, right?
I like you too, I love you, I love you, I love you. So, is there any more fun than at a Trump rally? You know a lot of times I have to do like reading as well pass an environmental bill and they want me to go to -- a Im very spoiled, you know, if I go to a small place and they have 2,000 people. Its like, why dont we open a stadium or something, you know were spoiled.
Other guys, they go out, they get 50 people, theyre satisfied. We need crowds like this. In fact, the fire marshal was fantastic. You know they had a lot of people out, and hes a great guy. Dont want to get him in trouble, but he opened up those doors and hes got guys saying, and he let, most of the people that were for -- you know they were sent away.
He got a look at those corners now those cameras are never going to cover those corners theyre, never going to cover the corner, theyre never going to cover. They never show the crowds they never like to show the crowd, ever. You know, the only thing is the noise, because you cant imitate it. It sounds like a Penn State football game, it sounds like an Ohio State football game, right? You cant.
Ill say to friends, Ill say to friends, did you see my speech last night? Yes, then, the first I have to say, How good was I? How good? and they say, Good. I said, Did they show the crowd? No they didnt., he said, But you know what, I could tell by the noise that crowd was really big. You cant hide that, you cant hide that.  So good.
The Democrats are the party of sanctuary cities, explain that one, right?  They like to protect criminals, they like to protect MS-13. These are -- the this is the party of -- So how about that? How about that? How about ice? These ice guys are tough as hell, they go in and theyre not playing games.
You know, the only thing I hate to say this, not so politically correct, but the only thing these gang members understand is toughness, I hate to say. Theyre, not interested in genius. Theyre not interested, theyre interested in somebody thats tougher than them. Thats what -- and we have the toughest people youve ever seen and they went out to Long Island and they grabbed them by the neck and they throw them into the paddy when were cleaning out, were doing it.  We are building the wall under this.
A hundred percent, 100%. You know the President of Mexico, who I think is a really nice guy, because you know its been, Build a Wall, and I cant get through a speech without somebody, because I was all set to say, Build the Wall, and then these guys start screaming, build a wall, well were building it. But the President of Mexico calls -- and you know, I told you were in the midst of negotiating NAFTA. So we have a little sticking point.
He called up and respectfully, because he really is a high quality guy and he called up, he goes, Mr. President, we would like you to make a statement that Mexico will not pay for the wall. I said, Are you crazy? You think Im gonna make -- Im not making that statement. He said, Well, you have to. I said, Is it a deal breaker? He said, Yes. I said, Bye-bye.
Were not making a deal. Theres no way Im making it. Now what I will say, and what I told him is, President, dont worry, it all comes out in the wash were gonna put it into the NAFTA agreement. Nobodys gonna be talking too much about it. Itll be park -- Were gonna make a much better than what we have to, we have to. When we lose $130 billion with Mexico. I think we can do a little better than that, right? The wall, you know what the wall is?
Its this, you dont even notice. Its like a little asterisk on the bottom, okay, so he said to me that, and I said, No, I think we cant do that. We actually broke it up. He was going to come to Washington no way. Im gonna say anything like that, but I will say we will build a wall, we have to build a wall, we have to build a wall, and the Democrats are holding it back. You know we had a deal 25 billion, and by the way, if I get 25 billion for the wall, you can have a lot of change.
Youre gonna have a lot of change. Ive got -- Ive, got all the big builders, the best ones in the world. I know the best builders, you know we want to use the good builders, not the bad ones. Save a lot of money on the airplanes. We save a lot of money on Air Force One, $1.4 billion we said.
One point four, still too expensive, its crazy. Its crazy. But we saved a lot of money. I got Boeing in and we had a talk and we said that we saved $1.4 billion, okay.
I mean thats worth a 10-minute meeting right. I dont care how big the United States is, but were gonna build the wall and we have to build the wall for people, for gangs, for drugs. The drugs has never been a problem like we have right now. And by the way, like the world has with drugs, and you know what, we fill up these councils, they all want to be on councils, they call them Blue Ribbon councils, where we take Melania, great, great first lady, we take -- shes great, she is great. You think her life is so easy, folks?
Not so easy. She is a great first la-, but we put Melania and other people on this blue-ribbon committee. Do you think the drug dealers that kill thousands of people during their lifetime, do you think they care whos on a blue-ribbon committee? The only way to solve the drug problem is through toughness. When you catch a drug dealer, you got a, you gotta put him away for a long time.
When I was in China, and other places by the way, I said, Mr. President, do you have a drug problem? No, no. no. We do not. I said Huh, big country. 1.4 billion people, right? Not much of a drug problem.
I said, What do you tribute that to? Well, the death penalty. True. Hey, if youre a drug dealer, and you know youre gonna get caught, and you know that youre gonna kill people, youre killing our kids, theyre killing our kids, theyre killing our kids, theyre killing our families, theyre killing our workers. You know, we have a hard time of the 100 million people, that special group of people, theyre great people.
They want to work. We have a hard time. A lot of them cant qualify to work in these factories. Chryslers coming back in, you saw that from Mexico to Michigan, you have -- We have companies coming back into the United States. You havent seen that. I used tell you that was going to happen, but now its happening. But a problem, a lot of people cant qualify because of drugs, but I said to the President, I said so, You dont have much of a problem. No.
And they had a problem. You know, if you go back 200 years ago and they know all about drugs. It was devastating to China, the opium, devastating, it destroyed China and Im not gonna let it destroy us. And there was an article in one of the main papers.
Maybe it was the failing New York Times, is one of them. And I dont even know where they get it because, honestly, I dont know that the United States, frankly, is ready for it. They should be ready for, but at a minimum you have to give long tough sentences. But if you go to Singapore, I said, Mr. President, what happens with your drugs? No, we dont have a problem, President. I said, Really, why? We have a zero-tolerance. And hes not playing games. These guys dont play games.
You know, we have a different type of people. They dont play games. I said, How you doing on drugs? No problem. Said, What do you mean no problem? And thats entertainment. You know, a lot of things are happening. So what do you mean no problem? We have a zero-tolerance policy.
What does that mean? That means if we catch a drug dealer, death penalty, thats it.  And they dont have a problem. Now, remember this.
If somebody goes and shoot somebody or kill somebody, they go away for life and they can even get the death penalty, right. One person. They shoot one person they get the death penalty, they shoot, one person kill some person, knife one person, the person dies, they get maybe the death penalty, or maybe life in prison, no parole, right. Okay. A drug dealer will kill 2,000, 3,000, 5,000 people during the course of his or her life.
Thousands of people are killed or their lives are destroyed, their families are destroyed, so you can kill thousands of people and go to jail for 30 days. They catch your drug dealer. They dont even put him in jail. Think of it, you kill one person, you get the death penalty in many states or you get life imprisonment. You think of it.
You kill 5,000 people with drugs because youre smuggling them in and you make it a lot of money and people are dying and they dont even put you in jail. They dont do anything, but you might get 30 days 60 days 90 days. You might get a year, but youre not gonna get, and then you wonder why we have a problem. Thats why we have a problem, folks.  And I dont think, I dont think we should play games now.
I never did polling on that. I dont know if thats popular, I dont know if thats unpopular, probably youll have some people. That say, Oh, thats, not nice, but -- but these people are killing our kids and theyre killing our families and we have to do something. We cant just keep setting up, blue-ribbon committees, with your wife and your wife and your husband and they meet and they have a meal and they talk, talk, talk, talk, two hours later, then they write a report said, look, thats what I got in Washington.
I got all these blue-ribbon committees. Everybody wants to be blue-ribbon, and we the opioid problem, and for that, we have to go after the drug companies, we have to, we have no choice.
We have to go after the drug companies,  we have no choice. So, so I think its a discussion we have to start thinking about, dont you agree? I dont know if youre ready, I dont know if this country is ready for it, but I think, Rick, I think its a discussion that we have to start thinking about.
So in Oakland you have a mayor  and she -- and she told people that were going to be captured in a big ray, that theres going to be a ray, cant do it, you cant do it, folks, weve got to get smart. My administration believes our cities should be safe havens for American people, not for American criminals, okay, not for American criminals.
Were going after violent criminals and were going after vicious gang members. These are so -- these people is so tough, but you know, we had our ICE agents out in Long Island. Can you imagine? I grew up like around in Queens in New York, which is sort of, but I knew, Long Island, well now, its sort of like on the way, right. And places that I know so well, I loaded up with MS-13.
Well, your daughter walks home, and they dont use guns, you never sell guns. The NRA happens to be very good people, by the way, they want to do the right thing,  but they dont use them. They dont use guns, they like to use knives and other things, because its much more painful, its much slower, its much --
These are animals and we send these guys out and we liberate those towns. We liberate them. Hillary wouldnt have liberated those towns, we liberate those towns and the people are cheering its like a war. Its like if you got liberated as a country.
Can you imagine this is taking place in our country? Its crazy. So we are doing a great, great job. We are loving it, were making tremendous progress.
Today, Im calling on Congress to stop funding sanctuary cities,  so we can save American life.  The funding bill should not give precious and massive taxpayer grants to cities aiding and abetting criminals. Thats what they do. Look at the stories, Kate, and so many, look at the stories how horrible they are.
Im also calling on Congress to finally end chain migration and cancel the very dangerous VISA lottery now theyre probably, again, the Democrats want to obstruct, so were probably going to have to wait till after the election, well get Rick in there and well get some other people in there and well be able to get it passed, because these guys dont want to do anything, they dont want to do anything.
You know they criticize, because we have vacancies in certain administrative offices. We have 270 people that we cannot get the Democrats to approve to come in and work in our administration.
Theyre out there. We have the Ambassador from Germany, and I take heat. These guys are always saying, Well, you dont have an ambassador. Because the Democrats wont approve them, they obstruct, they delay, they do everything they can and thats all theyre good at. They have no ideas, they have no ideas.
I mean, I look forward, I really do. I look forward to 2020 because I want to see how far left the person is going to be that were going to run against. I look forward to it. I look forward to it.  I really do. I really do. So together with your help, your voice, your vote. We could achieve more than anybody.
I mean again. I really believe -- and Im not saying this as braggadocious, because I tell you if we didnt, but the tax bill, when we got the individual mandate, but we also got ANWR, most people dont know what thats one of the biggest feels in the world. We got it approved. Theyve been trying to approve it for 40 years. That was a part of the textbook.
That alone would have been a massive thing to approve. It got ANWR in Alaska, one of the biggest fields in the world that will start working, and other things. So as long as were proud of who we are and what were fighting for, there is nothing beyond our reach, nothing, we need Republicans put in office. We need Senate, and I think were going to do pretty well with the Senate. You know the numbers are looking pretty good.
Did you see the numbers from about two months ago? And you see the numbers now its like from a different world, because people are seeing what were doing, theyre seeing what were doing. We stand on the shoulders of Patriots, who poured out their sweat and blood and tears, and were going to do things that nobodys been able to do? You know its very funny.
Every time I go out to speak, we have these massive crowds and you know how many people thousands were turned away. We let thousands in, but thousands were turned away, and I read one woman in the Wall Street Journal today, nice woman, I like her actually, Peggy Noonan, and she wrote an article about me and you know I went to the Wharton School of Finance.
Nice student, thats a very smart. You know, Ivy League school, great, the best Business School, I think, its one of the hardest schools, to even in my day, I mean, I went to the Wharton School did great, and then you got to read how were like, like, Is Trump a good speaker? Shes talking about, he uses a language, that you know.
You know how easy, remember I used to how easy it is to be Presidential, but youd all be out of here right now, but youd be so bored, because I could stand out, right. .
Im very Presidential, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here tonight. Rick Saccone will be a great, great Congressman. He will help me very much hes a fine man and young as a wonderful wife. I just want to tell you, on behalf of the United States of America, that we appreciate your service. We appreciate your service.
And to all of the military out there, we respect you very much. Thank you. Thank you.  And then you go, God bless you and God bless the United States of America.
Thank you very much.  See thats easy, thats much easier than doing what I have to do because, but this is much more effective. Dont forget this kind of selected. If I came like a stiff, you guys wouldnt be here tonight, so Im reading, Peggy Noonan, and shes a nice woman.
I like her. She doesnt like me much but and shes writing, like Im some kind of a Neanderthal, and Im saying, you know, Im really smart, you know its funny, they always talk. They always talk about how theyre telling us, they said we couldnt get elected. I say We. because you guys came from areas -- Some of you never voted before, but you love the country. You never voted before, but you love the country.
A great congressman from Tennessee they vote early, and the voting gets started and he was at a speech I was making in Pennsylvania, believe it or not, but he was there cause one of his friends, and it was Lou, but one of his friends was there.
So I didnt know him, and they had early voting in Tennessee, and he said, You know, Mr. President... and at that time I wasnt President, but he called me that, because he saw it was happening, he said, In Tennessee the early voting started and Ive been doing this stuff for 32 years and Ive never seen anything like it in my life. Those people are coming out of the hills. Theyre coming out of the valleys.
Theyre coming out of everything that you can come out of. Its the most amazing thing, and these are people that love the country, but they never voted because they never saw anybody they wanted to vote for. And now theyve got Trump, Trump, Trump Pence. Theyve got all this stuff, so Ive never seen anything like it.  And then they ask, Is he a good speaker? I dont know.
Look. I dont know if Im a good speaker, but you know what every time I have a 25,000 seat stadium, we fill it up, so something has -- it has to be right. Maybe its just pure ideas. I dont know, its hard.
Oh, I love that guy. He said its hard, we all have heart, but this man, great guy, great congressman, actually. He said, All these years, Ive never seen anything like it. He said, and I can only tell you -- I love the state of Tennessee, but I can only tell you if the rest of the countries like Tennessee youre, going to win this damn election and its going to be easy and we got 306 to 223.
Remember they said, 270, you cannot -- remember the famous 270, he cannot win the election because he cannot get above 270. We needed 270. In fact, they couldnt get me to 270, 69, so we had 269.
They said, He cannot win. He cannot get. Remember? To 270. And we didnt, we got to 306.  But remember Pennsylvania, remember Pennsyl -- That was really terrible, so yeah, Ive never done this before you know, I did -- I ran for President, never did it before.
Somebody said you know Ive been running for the Senate like six times he said you ran for President, you won. What happened is Pennsylvania, remember that night? So we were one point away. We were at 99% of the vote was tabulated right, remember that? 99 and if I lost 10 points we wouldve win it.
Would there was no way you could lose because we were winning by thousands and thousands of votes, and one point doesnt have all of those thousands of votes. They wouldnt call Pennsylvania, they refused to call it, remember? and I wanted to win. I wanted to win with Pennsylvania was so befitting, because they had spent ten times more in the state of Pennsylvania than I did ten times more, and Im waiting for Pennsylvania, Im saying, Come on, Pennsylvania, go one point and I win and I have thousands more votes than I need. In other words, if every single person of the remainder voted against me, we win easily, they wouldnt call it, and then what happened.
Wisconsin came in, we won with Wisconsin, which hadnt been won in decades and then we won with Michigan and then finally they were devastated. You see that were crying 1-1, crying, shes crying. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh, remember John King with the board? I do this every once at the board.
The red board is all red. Its like red man. That board was red, meaning Republican and John King, He cant believe it. He goes, I think he just won the State of Florida. Yes, Donald Trump won the state of Floridas got off. Then they go.
You had to run. You know the electoral college is much harder than the popular vote, because popular vote you go to three or four states, electoral college, you have to go to like nineteen. I was all over the place. I went to Maine, four times, because I needed one vote. They had one vote, that was going to be 269 to 270.
The one vote was going to be very important, so I went to Maine like four times, thats a lot. Because I nodded, if a lot of people said: why are you doing? First of all, I like the people of Maine, but I needed one, but what happened was an incredible -- it was an incredible evening, one of the greatest nights in the history of television, in terms of numbers of people watching, and we have done a job. So heres what this is going to happen.
Let me give you the bad news. The bad news is, they want to take it away from us. They want to take it away, theyre doing everything they can to take it away, and that starts with the election coming up in a few months and we have to win it. We have to get out and we have to win. Normally, I would not come except its Pennsylvania, say I love it anyways, I love the people, I mean, I went to school, I went to Wharton, I went to school here.
I love Pennsylvania. I mean look, how can I not love it, right? Somebody else would show up here and then honestly, Rick, would it be 50, 60 people in front, right? First of all, you wouldnt have this youd have a little place, but I love this state, but I really feel strongly about Rick Saccone, and I know him. I feel strongly about him.
Hes an incredible guy. Number 1, and I dont know that this is important, but to me it is, hes a very fine human being, hes a good person. Hes really a good person. Rick, come up here.  Hes a really good person.
So hes a good person, I dont know if that means, that does that mean anything? Hes a very, hes a very competent person, hes a very hard worker. He knows things that many people dont know. He understands North Korea, maybe better than anybody. I spoke to him about North Korea.
He was there for a long time and I spoke to him about North Korea and Im telling you, I learned things that all of these great geniuses, all of these great experts on North Korea did not tell me. This is a very extraordinary guy. We need him, we need Republicans, we need the votes, otherwise, theyre gonna take away your taxes, your tax cuts, theyre gonna take away your Second Amendment rights.
True. Theyre gonna take away, you know, in the military big big military place, we just got approved $700 billion. We have to rebuild our military, $700 billion, far more than the other party.
Theyll take that away too. Our military was really depleted, but I just want to know. I want you to know, I came tonight because this guy is special and beyond the vote, its very important. Remember this, the other opponent, his opponent is not voting for us. He can say all he wants, is no way hes voting for us, ever, ever.
End he could be nice to me, and he is, but theres no way hes ever voting for me. Rick is gonna vote for us all the time, all the time.  So... So I want to ask Rick to say a few words and -- and again, its an honor to be with you, go out on Tuesday and just vote like crazy.
You got to get out there. The world is watching. This -- I hate to put this pressure on you, Rick, theyre, all watching, because I won this district like by 22 points. Its a lot.
Thats why Im here, look at all those red hats, Rick. Look. Look at all those hats. Thats a lot of hats. And we just had a poll, were more popular now than we were on election day.
This guy should win easily and hes gonna win easily. You got to know him, hes an extraordinary person. Go out and vote on Tuesday for Rick Saccone. Rick, go ahead.
Do we love our President here in western Pennsylvania?  Yeah? Oh, we do. We do.
Let him hear it. Let him hear it, through those cameras.  They probably turned the volume down, they didnt hear ya. Ill just say a couple words.
You already heard me speak earlier. I want to thank President Trump. As I said before, if President Trumps in your corner, how can you lose? Hes the best man you could ask -- anyone could ask to be in your corner.
As any good businessman knows, as any good businessman knows, you work on the deal, you work on the deal. There comes a time to close the deal. This is the time to close the deal. We got two days left. Are you gonna help me on Tuesday?  Lets close this deal.
So again, with that well say, goodnight, but again go out vote for Rick. Hell never, ever disappoint you. Hes a winner. Hes never going to disappoint you.
Just go out vote with your hearts, vote with your brains. This is an extraordinary man. Im gonna be home. Watching that returns, and I hope that I have to make a call on Tuesday night, where I speak to you and young, and I say great job, great race, the whole world, remember that, theyre all watching. We want to keep it going.
