Donald Trump|Press Gaggle: Donald Trump Speaks to Reporters in Morristown, New Jersey|August 18, 2019
So, we had a lot of meetings yesterday on Afghanistan, on the economy -- which is doing very well. We have the strongest economy, by far, in the world. The tariffs have cost nothing, in my opinion, or certainly very little. We have import prices from, and through, July -- all the way through July. And theyre down 1.8 percent so that the import prices have actually gone down.
China is eating the tariffs because of monetary manipulation. And also, theyre pouring a lot of money into their country because they dont want to lose jobs. Theyre losing, as you probably know, because you reported it, but they lost over 2 million jobs in a short period of time. And they want to make a deal; well see what happens.
But they definitely want to make a deal. Id like to see Hong Kong worked out in a very humanitarian fashion. I hope President Xi can do it. He sure has the ability, I can tell you that, from personal knowledge. He certainly has the ability to do it if he wants to. So, Id like to see that worked out in a humanitarian fashion.
I think it would be very good for the trade deal that were talking about. And other than that, if you have any questions?
Well, were looking at Afghanistan. Were talking to Afghanistan, both the government and also talking to the Taliban, having very good discussions. Well see what happens. Weve really got it down to, probably, 13,000 people. And well be bringing it down a little bit more, and then well decide whether or not well be staying longer or not.
Were having very good discussions with the Taliban. Were having very good discussions with the Afghan government.
I think just that weve been there for 19 years. Were like a police force. And thats about it, frankly. I think its very important that we continue intelligence there, in all cases, because it is somewhat of a nest for hitting us. If you look at what happened with the World Trade, it essentially came out of Afghanistan.
Most of the people, I think, they may not have come from Afghanistan originally, but thats where they were taught. So theres a big argument to be made. And I buy that argument. You know, its very tough when somebody says, "Well, this is a big breeding ground." And it is a breeding ground. And we have things under control very well with a small force.
We can probably make it a little bit smaller, and then well decide. Itll depend on the Taliban. Itll depend on the Afghan government. But there is a case to be made. And the case also is that were going to be leaving very significant intelligence behind for just the reasons I stated.
I cant comment on that. Cant do it, Maggie.
Well, I think President Xi obviously has this in mind because he probably wouldve acted faster. So I think he has at least something in mind, having to do with trade, because its something he could do fairly easily. It could be, unfortunately, very ruthless. So I do think it plays on his mind, and I do think he -- hes thinking about what Ive had to say.
It would have an impact on trade; theres no question about it.
Little louder, Maggie.
Well, Greenland, I dont know -- it got released somehow. Its just something we talked about. Denmark essentially owns it. Were very good allies with Denmark. We protect Denmark like we protect large portions of the world. So the concept came up and I said, "Certainly, Id be. Strategically, its interesting, and wed be interested." But well talk to them a little bit.
Its not number one on the burner, I can tell you that.
Well, a lot of things can be done. I mean, essentially, its a large real estate deal. A lot of things can be done. Its hurting Denmark very badly because theyre losing almost $700 million a year carrying it. So they carry it at a great loss. And, strategically, for the United States, it would be nice.
And were a big ally of Denmark, and we help Denmark and we protect Denmark, and we will. In fact, Im supposed to stop. Im thinking about going there. Im not necessarily definitely going there, but I may be going. Were going to Poland and then we may be going to Denmark -- not for this reason at all.
But were looking at it. Its not number one on the burner.
Well, Im not trusting anybody. Look, Im not trusting anybody. Its a horrible situation thats going on in Afghanistan. It has been for many years. Russia tried to do something. And at the time they did it, they were the Soviet Union, and now theyre Russia. They spent all their wealth on trying to do something in that land.
There have been many, many great nations in that land. Its a difficult territory. There are a lot of very good people there, I will say, but theyre also good fighters. We have it very much under control as far as what were doing. But the rest is -- you know, a lot of bad things happen in Kabul. A lot of bad things are happening in Afghanistan, and some very positive things.
But we would -- look, were there for one reason: We dont want that to be a laboratory. Okay? It cant be a laboratory for terror. And weve stopped that, and we have a very, very good view. I mean, some things are going to be announced over the next couple of weeks as to what happened, whos been taken out.
A lot of people have been taken out that were very bad -- both ISIS and al Qaeda.
Well, I guess that means Lindsey is a very tough man, isnt he? Huh? Okay. What else?
No. That was reported. And, actually, its the opposite. Huawei. Huawei is a company we may not do business with at all. And it was sort of reported, I think the opposite, today -- I was surprised -- that we are open to doing business. Were actually open not to doing business with them. So I dont know who gave the report.
Now, they have little sections of Huawei, like furniture and other things that we could do. But when you cut out sections, it gets very complicated: whats being sold, whats coming in. So, at this moment, it looks much more like were not going to do business. I dont want to do business at all, because it is a national security threat.
And I really believe that the media has covered it a little bit differently than that. So were looking, really, not to do business with Huawei. And were actually talking about not doing any business, because, again, the rest of it is not national security, but its very difficult to determine whats coming in and whats not coming in. Its still Huawei.
So well be making a decision over that in the not-too-distant future. But its a little bit the opposite of what seemed to be reported this morning.
I had a very good meeting with Tim Cook. I have a lot of respect for Tim Cook. And Tim was talking to me about tariffs. And, you know, one of the things -- and he made a good case -- is that Samsung is their number-one competitor, and Samsung is not paying tariffs because theyre based in South Korea. And its tough for Apple to pay tariffs if theyre competing with a very good company thats not.
I said, "How good a competitor?" He said they are a very good competitor. So, Samsung is not paying tariffs because theyre based in a different location, mostly South Korea, but theyre based in South Korea. And I thought he made a very compelling argument, so Im thinking about it.
Well, I hope not. I love Larry Kudlow. I think hes done a fantastic job. He has been going through health problems, as you know. But I watched him this morning; he was terrific. I think Larry is a fantastic guy. But I havent heard that at all.
I dont see a recession. I mean, the world is in a recession right now. And -- although, thats too big a statement. But if you look at China, China is doing very, very poorly. Theyve had -- I just saw a report -- theyve had the worst year theyve had in 27 years because of what Ive done. And they want to come to the negotiating table.
You know, theyre having companies lose -- I mean, theyre leaving. The companies are leaving. And theyre laying off millions of people because they dont want to pay 25 percent. And thats why they want to come to the table. I dont think theres another reason other than President Xi, Im sure, likes me very much.
But theyre losing millions and millions of jobs in China. And were not paying for the tariffs; China is paying for the tariffs, for the one-hundredth time. And I understand tariffs work very well. Other countries it may be that if I do things with other countries. But in the case of China, China is eating the tariffs, at least so far.
Yeah. Phil, honestly, Im prepared for everything. I dont think were having a recession. Were doing tremendously well. Our consumers are rich. I gave a tremendous tax cut, and theyre loaded up with money. Theyre buying. I saw the Wal-Mart numbers; they were through the roof, just two days ago. Thats better than any poll.
Thats better than any economist. And most economists actually say, Phil, that were not going to have a recession. Most of them are saying were not going to have a recession. But the rest of the world is not doing well like were doing. The rest of the world, if you look at Germany, if you look at European Union; frankly, look at the UK -- I mean, look at a lot of countries -- theyre not doing well.
China is doing poorly. Parts of Asia are doing poorly. We are doing better than any country, or even area, anywhere in the world. Were doing great. And our consumer is really, really strong, and it looks like theyre going to be for a long time. Also, when you go in and analyze the curve, the curve always means that about two years later maybe youll go in. Thats a long time -- two years.
But I dont think so. Interest rates are low. I think I could be helped out by the Fed, but the Fed doesnt like helping me too much. But, you know, frankly, we have money thats pouring into our country because they want the security of the United States. We have billions and billions of dollars daily thats pouring in -- weve never had anything like this -- because they want to come into the United States.
Thats a great thing. That means we can loan that money out. Mortgage rates are at an all-time low. Borrowing costs are at an all-time low. Its probably a great time. I told Secretary Mnuchin that this is a great time to refinance our bonds, or some of our bonds. You know, its -- I mean, the money is pouring into the U.S. like never before and like no other country has ever experienced, including China money.
I mean, China money -- everybody -- theyre all coming into the U.S. So weve never had anything like it. I think our economy is very, very good.
Well, Id be prepared for it. We can do -- sure, we can do a lot of things. But if it slowed down, it would be because I have to take on China and some other countries. Look, you have other countries that are just as bad as China, the way they treat us. You take a look at whats happening with the European Union; they have barriers, they have tariffs.
Take a look at other -- Im not going to mention all the countries because youll be surprised. But were treated very badly -- a lot of them by our allies. Were treated very badly. When all of that normalizes, weve got a rocket ship. Our country is going to be stronger, by far, than ever before. I mean, if I wanted to make a bad deal and settle on China, the market would go up but it wouldnt be the right thing to do. Im just not ready to make a deal yet.
China would like to make a deal. Im not ready.
No, no update, other than Iran would like to talk also. I have to say "also." China wants to talk, but Iran would like to talk. They just dont know quite how to get there. Look, theyre very proud people, but their economy is crashing. Its crashing. Inflation is through the roof. Theyre doing really badly.
Theyre not selling oil. Even -- I mean, we put the sanctions on. The oil is selling much less -- I mean, much less -- than we thought. Its like a trickle. And they very much want to make a deal. They just dont know how to call because theyre proud people, and I understand that. But I have a feeling that maybe things with Iran could work out, and maybe not.
If you notice, they havent taken any of our boats. They havent taken our ships. Theyve taken ships, but they havent taken our ships, and they better not. But I will say this: I really think that Iran wants to get there. They have a great potential. I say this about North Korea. North Korea has tremendous potential.
Also, Iran has tremendous potential, and we can do something very fast, but they dont quite know how to begin because theyre proud people. Theyre very proud people. But their country is crashing. Their economy is a disaster. Theyve got to do something, so lets see what happens.
So, Congress is working on that. They have bipartisan committees working on background checks and various other things. And well see. I dont want people to forget that this is a mental health problem. I dont want them to forget that, because it is. Its a mental health problem. And as I say -- and I said the other night in New Hampshire; we had an incredible evening -- I said: Its the people that pull the trigger.
Its not the gun that pulls the trigger. So we have a very, very big mental health problem, and Congress is working on various things, and Ill be looking at it. Were very much involved. Were very much involved in looking at what theyre studying.
Well, were going to look at a whole list of things, and Ill make a determination then. But I will say, Congress is now, as you know, meeting in a bipartisan way. Well see what happens. A lot of things are happening on the gun level. A lot of things are happening. But you have to remember, also, its a big mental -- I was talking about mental institutions.
They closed so many -- like 92 percent -- of the mental institutions around this country over the years, for budgetary reasons. These are people that have to be in institutions for help. Im not talking about as a form of a prison. Im saying for help. And I think its something we have to really look at -- the whole concept for mental institutions.
I remember, growing up, we had mental institutions. Then they were closed -- in New York, Im talking about. They were -- many of them were closed. A lot of them were closed. And all of those people were put out on the streets. And I said -- even as a young guy, I said, "How does that work? Thats not a good thing." And its not a good thing.
So I think the concept of mental institution has to be looked at. Unrelated to that, I believe that the concept also of voter identification has to be looked at, because you cant have great security for the voter. People that vote, you cant have that national security unless youre going to have voter identification.
Its something people have to look at very strongly.
Yeah, I did. We had a lot of meetings, and the golf was the least of it. I played two days. The golf was the least of it. I dont care about -- look, I like golf; its fine. Its so unimportant to me. Usually, Ill play with senators, Ill play with people where it can help. Golf is not important from that standpoint other than its a little form of exercise, and thats not so bad.
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, there is. I mean, Ive approved the deal. The deal is approved. Got to be approved by the Senate, but Ive approved the deal. Its $8 billion. Its a lot of money. Thats a lot of jobs. And we know theyre going to use these F-16s responsibly. But we approved the deal. A lot of money. And its a great aircraft.
And we really believe -- or we perhaps wouldnt have done it -- theyre going to use it very responsibly. But its tremendous numbers of jobs. Its $8 billion.
No, no, just -- I said, "unrelated." I wanted to bring that out while Im here with you. I think voter ID laws are -- if you look, voter identification. So when people show up to vote -- because, if you look, Judicial Watch made a settlement with California, I guess, or Los Angeles, where they found over a million names that was very problematic -- a problem.
And you just take a look at that settlement; thats a lot of names. You had people that were well over 100 years old that were voting, but we know theyre not around any longer. So, you have a lot of voter fraud. The way you stop it, the easiest way, is voter identification. We have to go and think about that.
I hope Republicans and Democrats can vote, sit down, and work something out on voter ID.
Well, let the commission -- the commission was having a tremendous problem, legally, getting papers from various states like California. They were absolutely hard-lining. They didnt want to give this commission -- it was just a quick commission, headed up by Vice President Pence, to look at voter fraud.
The problem the commission had is we had to have a vast amount of lawyers, which I didnt want to bother with, because California and other states were giving up no information whatsoever. And the reason they werent giving up information is because they were guilty. They were guilty of it. And they know theyre guilty of it. Many, many people voted that shouldnt have been voting.
Some people voted many times. What Im saying is we need voter identification. We need voter ID.
Maybe. Maybe. I dont think Denmark has been absolutely set in stone yet, going there. But if I did, Id certainly talk about it. But not -- not top in the list.
We havent gotten there yet. First, we have to find out whether or not they have any interest. Look, theyre losing almost $700 million carrying it. Thats a lot of money for Denmark. Theyre losing a tremendous amount of money. So well see what happens.
Well, Fox has always given me -- Ill tell you, Fox is a lot different than it used to be, I can tell you that. Juan Williams. Then they have the wonderful woman that gave Hillary Clinton the questions. That was a terrible thing. And all of a sudden, shes working for Fox. Whats she doing working for Fox? Fox has changed.
And my worst polls have always been from Fox. Theres something going on at Fox, Ill tell you right now. And Im not happy with it.
I dont know whats happening with Fox, but when they have, like, a Juan Williams, who has never said a positive thing, and yet, when I show up at the Fox building, hes out there, "Oh, sir, can I have a picture with you? Could I have a picture?" And he was 100 percent nice. I mean, youve never asked me for a picture.
No. No. They have to run it the way they want to run it. But Fox is different. Theres no question about it. And I think theyre making a big mistake, because Fox was treated very badly by the Democrats -- very, very badly -- having to do with the debates and other things. And I think Fox is making a big mistake.
Because, you know, Im the one that calls the shots on that -- on the really big debates. I guess were probably planning on three of them.
Well, Im very -- Im not happy with Fox. Im certainly happy -- I think Sean Hannity, and Lou Dobbs, and I think Tucker Carlson and Laura and Jesse Watters, and Jeanine. We have a lot of great people. Even Greg Gutfeld; he wasnt good to me two years ago. Now he sees all Ive done, and he said, "Would you rather have a great President or a nice guy?" I dont know, I think Im a nice guy.
But nobody has done in two and a half years what Ive done. And I say that a lot. And very few people can challenge it. The first two and a half years, nobody has done what Ive done in terms of tax cuts, regulation cuts, the military, the vets, the Choice, so many different things. Nobody has done that.
Yeah.
Well, Im talking to my people, but ultimately, we dont want to do business with Huawei for national security reasons.
Well see what happens. Im making a decision tomorrow. It could be temporary -- could be -- and maybe not. But were going to make a decision tomorrow.
I dont believe it.
I dont believe it. Every place I go, we have lines outside. Then we have even phony stuff with that. You guys were in New Hampshire. Maggie was there. You saw, that room was packed. And they had thousand -- Maggie -- there were thousands of people outside. And then, I see some phony website some wise guys put up. That place was packed.
And the New York Times actually saw that, and actually, there was a massive flag behind -- and even the seats behind the flag where you had no view --
Because those people came down to be on the floor.
But all of the people -- any empty seat, you had the people come down to be on the floor because they were so far away. Plus, you had a big flag. Look, we had, I think they said, 17,000 people outside that couldnt get in. The fire marshals close it at a certain level. The arena announced -- I dont know the people at the arena -- that I broke Elton Johns record.
And then, I have fake news. The fact is that people tend, during a speech that I make, they love to come down to the floor if theyre sitting in the high areas. And theyre not allowed, for fire reasons, to have any more people. So, that was an amazing evening, and you saw the enthusiasm. But we had a lot of people sitting behind that massive American flag that couldnt see, so they moved over and they moved down, and they came down to the floor as the speech started.
But Maggie Haberman was very fair. And she was there and she saw the beginning of that speech. Every seat was packed. But then they tend to come down. They do it all the time.
Oh, I dont know. Phil. Phil, what can I tell you? Do I think Im going to win? Yes. Do I think I have more enthusiasm now than I had before this -- you know, the 2016 election? Yes. I think were -- I think you people do too. And some of you have reported it. I think there is more enthusiasm for President Trump than there was even for Mr. Trump.
Because what I said that I was going to do, I did. The tax cut, the regulation cuts -- the biggest in history. In two and a half years, more than -- and thats one of the reasons our jobs are so good, because of the regulation cuts.
I just dont want to comment on that
Well, I can speak to him any time. But he understands how I feel. I just cant comment as to whether or not I spoke to him. But I will tell you this: Were having very, very substantive talks with China, and with others, but with China.
I cant believe it. You know, I tell you, Ive never seen 2 million people. When you talk about crowd size, Maggie, those are serious crowds -- the Hong Kong crowds. I mean, when they said 2 million people on the streets, that really looked like 2 million people on the streets.
No, I think it would be very hard to deal if they do violence. I mean, if its another Tiananmen Square, its -- I think its a very hard thing to do if theres violence. And, you know, that -- Im President, but thats a little beyond me because I think thered be -- you know, I think thered be tremendous political sentiment not to do something.
So I hope -- because I think were going to end up doing a very good deal. And I think China, by the way, needs a deal much more than we do. But I really do believe that if this werent part of the deal, possibly something would have happened already a long time ago.
Well, Ill tell you what I do support: I support liberty. I support democracy. I understand whats going on very well over there. Id love to see it worked out in a humane fashion. And I think they have a great chance of doing it. Look, I put out -- and I told you that I really believe -- I have a confidence in the -- in the talents of President Xi. I think if he met with the protestors, within a very short period of time, they would work something out thats good for everybody.
I really believe that. Hes a very talented man. I mean, aside from everything, hes a very talented man. Hes very smart, very talented. And I know him well, probably as well as anybody, And I believe if he sat down with them -- now, you know, hes not -- thats not his deal, sitting down with people. You know, he doesnt do that.
But I think, maybe, the world changes. I really believe if President Xi sat down with representatives of the protestors -- and they do have representatives; pretty good representatives, pretty strong representatives. Ive been watching and seeing them. If he sat down, I think hed work something out. And I think it would be good for everybody.
But it does put pressure on the trade deal. If they do something negative, it puts pressure. Now, that deal I can sign by myself. Its structured so I dont have to go to Congress. But I respect Congress. I respect the views of Congress. And I respect, most importantly, the views of the people of our country.
And I think it would be much harder for me to sign a deal if he did something violent in Hong Kong.
Are you talking about the --
-- rescission? Yeah. I support many of those things. Well negotiate it out. But, you know, Ive cut back a lot on countries. You know, we give billions of dollars to countries that dont even like us. And Ive been cutting that a lot. We give billions and billions of dollars to countries that dont like us -- dont like us even a little bit.
And Ive been cutting that. And we just put a package of about 4 billion additional dollars in. And, in some cases -- you know, in some cases, I could see it both ways. In some cases, these are countries that we should not be giving to.
I dont think so. No, I dont think so. And if I thought it would, Id probably do it. But, you know, I cut back $1.3 billion a year to Pakistan. And when I cut it back, I have a better relationship with -- as you know, the President came in, and we have a great relationship. Prime Minister came in. We have a great relationship with Pakistan now.
He -- we had a really good meeting. So, what happened: I cut back $1.3 billion. We have a better relationship now. I also cut it back on the Palestinians because they speak very badly about our country. So I cut it back on the Palestinians. We were paying $500 billion a year, and now were paying nothing.
But I think were going to get further because I could see opening that up again. I think were going to do much better the way Im doing it. You know, were trying to negotiate a peace deal. Everybody said thats the deal thats totally impossible. They talk about a deal between the Palestinians and the Israelis as the toughest deal you could possibly do, no matter what deal youre talking about.
And I stopped payment on $500 million a year, but I think theyre going to make a deal. And I think one of the reasons theyd want to make a deal is because of that. Okay?
I probably will wait, but we may put out pieces of it. We have some very talented people -- as you know, our great ambassador and others. We have some very talented people. But thats probably the toughest deal of all -- peace between the Israelis and the Palestinians -- because theyve been decades of hate.
And its tough to make a deal when theres that much hate. But I think Ive helped it very much by saying, "Look, until theres a deal, were not going to pay you anymore." And other people should have done that long before me. So these are things, when you talk about rescission -- and thats not part of rescission, by the way -- but we have a lot of things like that in the rescission.
Phil?
I think we have a great Cabinet. Yeah, there will always be people changed, because, you know, after -- youre going to be three years now. Its a long time. Theyre under a lot of pressure. And -- but I think we have a great Cabinet. I really do. I think our Cabinet is terrific. Some of them will leave for a period of time; they may come back.
I mean, the relationship I have is very good with the Cabinet and with others. But, you know, its almost three years now, if you can believe it. Right? And at a certain point of time, people do tend to leave.
Well, I havent said whether or not I would, but I would say NAFTA is one of the worst deals ever made in the history of trade deals. If you look at NAFTA, and you take a look at what its done to our country, thousands of factories closed, millions of jobs. Its been a one-way street. And the USMCA is a great deal.
The unions love it. The farmers love it. Everybody wants it. But its up to Nancy Pelosi. If she wants to put it for a vote, shes going to get overwhelming bipartisan support. And I view that as a bipartisan deal. I would imagine shed put it up. Theres an easy thing to do. It will be totally bipartisan, which is good for the Democrats and the Republicans.
And everybody wants it. I mean, the unions like it. The unions hated NAFTA, but they love the USMCA. The farmers, above all, love it, especially the American farmers. Our farmers love it more than the other two sides. They love it. So, a lot of good things going. But we have to see; they have to put it up for a vote.
You know, its political season, if you havent noticed. So they have to put it up for a vote.
Yeah, at some point, maybe, if she wanted to. Yeah.
I really havent. Ive been talking to a lot of people.
No, Im very happy with Mike Pence.
I think Mike Pence has been an outstanding VP. I think that hes been incredible in terms of the love that a lot of people -- especially if you look at the Evangelicals and so many others, they really have a great respect for our Vice President. And so do I. And so do, I think, most people. No, I wouldnt -- I wouldnt be thinking about that.
A lot of people -- a lot of people, you know, amazingly, they bring different names up. And they brought a lot of different names up.
And thats -- and thats, by the way --  -- at some point, Ill let you know -- but thats, by the way, standard. You know, thats standard. Everybody thought that President Obama was going to change Biden. They all thought that in the, you know, second term, he was going to change it. Everybody thought it. And he didnt do that.
But, no, Im very happy with Mike Pence.
Thank you all. Thank you.
Which one?
So, Congress is looking at it very strongly. Bipartisan. I put in certain parameters, which you somewhat know about. Im also very, very concerned with the Second Amendment, more so than most Presidents would be. People dont realize we have very strong background checks right now. If you go in to buy a gun, you have to sign up. There are a lot of background checks that have been approved over the years.
So Ill have to see what it is. But Congress is meeting. Bipartisan. A lot of people want to see something happen. But just remember this: Big mental problem, and we do have a lot of background checks right now.
Im not saying anything. Im saying Congress is going to be reporting back to me with ideas. And theyll come in from Democrats and Republicans. And Ill look at it very strongly. But just remember, we already have a lot of background checks. Okay? Thank you.
Say it?
I have. Well, I spoke to him a week ago. And, look, Ive had a great relationship with the NRA, and I will always have a great relationship. Ive been very good for the NRA. If you just look -- I mean, we have now two Supreme Court justices -- great ones. And who would have thought that was going to happen in, you know, long prior to three years?
So, we have two. And equally importantly, we will have, within another 90 days, 179 federal judges. And I say, "Thank you very much, President Obama." Because he was unable to get them filled. I dont know what happened to him, but he was unable. So, President Obama did not do his job. And I inherited 138 empty positions.
And, honestly, from his standpoint, and the standpoint of where hes coming from, that shouldnt have happened. And we did do one other thing. I saw last night where some people were talking about criminal justice reform -- very liberal Democrats. Im the one that got it done. And I saw that, and I said, "You know, isnt it a shame?
You do something…" -- and Ive had very conservative people wanting it and very liberal people wanting it. But if you take a look at -- if you take a look at that reform package, without Donald Trump, it doesnt happen. And you know what? I dont need the credit. I get enough credit. But they never even mention my name.
