Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Tampa, FL|October 24, 2016
Thank you everybody. So we have almost 20,000 people -- broke the record, and we have more people pouring in. [Applause]
There's 7,000 people outside. We're trying to get them in. Should we wait for them to get in? I agree.
I want to thank you. This is amazing. These crowds are amazing no matter where we go. We're going to make America great again. No matter where we go, these crowds are incredible. And it's great to be back here in Tampa and to be back in my second home, Florida. I love my second home. I love Florida. [Applause]
In case you haven't heard, the new poll from Investor's Business Daily, the most accurate poll for the last three presidential elections by far, has us up two points nationwide. We're leading. [Applause]
Number one.
Early voting in Florida begins today through the fifth, so make sure you get out and vote or this whole thing, you know, the movement that they're all talking about all over the world. It won't be the same, folks. We're not going to be able to do what we wanted to do.
Get your friends, your family, your co-workers out to vote so you can go vote today. You can go vote tomorrow, but get out to vote. Don't wait until the end. [Applause]
Get out to vote.
You know, this is a movement like they have never seen in our country before, never seen. The great pundits and, frankly, some of them aren't so great, but there has never been a political phenomena like what we're doing right now and we're all part of it. And we have to finish it off, so get out and vote.
Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track according to all of the latest polls, and we're are going to fix it. [Applause]
I love those pink signs, Women for Trump." I love those signs. [Applause]"" love those pink signs

We are going to put our country back on the right track, and we're going to do it quickly. Together, we are going to deliver real change that puts America first, something we haven't been for a long time. They don't put us first anymore. They put other countries first. They take our jobs. They take our companies. We're going to stop that very, very quickly. [Applause]