Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Manchester, New Hampshire|August 15, 2019
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. Wow. I will never ever let you down, that I can tell you. Amazing. And I want to thank Manchester and New Hampshire are very special. You remember those primaries, that primary came around and remember what happened during the primary? Trump should come in third or fourth, and we came in easily No. 1, and that was the beginning.
That was an easy one. I want to thank you all. This is incredible, and its great to be back in a state that I love with thousands of hardworking patriots, who are the heart and soul of America and thats what you are. And were actually here today to officially launch our campaign to win the great state of New Hampshire in 2020. And I saw some fake polls put out by the fake news media and had said that Im tied, Im tied with three of the other candidates, the Democrats.
Im tied in New Hampshire. I dont think so. One of them has a rally, hes got a hundred people. So this holds 12,000. Were full and we could fill it up four times, at least. We could fill it up four times, but I just want to thank you all. I just think its going to be a tremendous four years. Were going to have a tremendous four years.
Can you believe it? We only have a little more than a year to go where it all started, right? The greatest movement in the history of our country, the greatest political movement in the history of our country. And even though we had fake witch hunts on our back and all the other things that we had to go through, we have taken this big, beautiful ship and its being turned around very quickly.
Three years ago, we campaigned across the country on a pledge to make America great again and thats exactly what weve done. I think we can honestly say its the greatest slogan in the history of politics in America, right? make America great again. So if you dont mind, you know, the other candidates go, they spend millions and millions of dollars on this question that Im going to ask you, they spend millions.
You remember the first slogan from our opponents? Thats right, neither do I, neither does anybody. I dont either. Nobody remembers. The only thing I remember is the first night I went out after I heard it and I said, "See, its all about her." And they immediately changed it after spending like a million dollars.
They said, its all about her that didnt work out too well. That slogan wasnt too good, so we have to do this. We have to make a decision. You give up the greatest slogan in the history of politics in our country, make America great again, right? So do we give up make America great again for a new slogan, because look our country is doing great, we are doing very well with China, despite the fact that they want to have you believe through the contrary.
All you have to do is say, China, how you doing? Theyre not too happy, theyre not too happy. Theyre losing millions of jobs. The tariffs are working and theyre eating the tariffs by the way. Theres no price increase. You know, youve got to talk to these people, the fake news, but do we give up -- and by the way, the biggest beneficiary, you know who have been great?
Our great farmers have been so incredible because theyve been targeted by China. And frankly, theyve been targeted for a long time, including by incompetent politicians that have run this country for a long time. So were making up for a lot of lost ground. But do we give up make America great again for keep America great, keep America great.
OK, you ready? Ready? I love this because its free and we have all the time in the world, right? Is there anything better than a Trump rally? What about a sleepy Joe Biden rally? Right? Boy, hes made some beauties. I sort of hope its him. I dont mind any of them. You got Pocahontas rising, you got Kamala, Kamala is falling.
You got Beto, Beto is like, but well see what happens. Whoever -- you know, whoever it is. I dont know that it matters, but whoever it is, different, different people. But I dont know, I think sleepy Joe may be able to limp across the finish line. But today they announced that theyre going to cut way back on his appearances because he is such a disaster, theyre going to have fewer appearances.
Youve heard that, right? This is certain. Theyre going to cut way back on his appearances. Can you believe it? If I ever did that, it would be over. The fake news would get us, but we dont let him get us and it is fake. And today, the deputy editor of The New York Times was demoted. Is that beautiful?
Is that beautiful? All the news thats not fit to print, you know. So all the news, the fake failing New York Times. So why do I go with -- where do we go? You know, its really we, its not me. Were doing it together. They came from the hills. They came from the mountains, from the rivers. They came from all over the place and they showed up and they voted like nobodys seen before, and it was 306 to 223, remember?
306. And we won Wisconsin. And they said, Oh, we never thought of that, got to think about those thing. And we won Michigan and now we have a lot of car companies coming into Michigan and we have a lot of great farming events happening really big in Wisconsin, and we have incredible things going on in Pennsylvania.
We just opened up a $10 billion plant. We have many of them going up, many of them, lot of jobs. Spending in Louisiana an LNG plant $10 billion. Could never have happened, could never have happened. Pennsylvania would have never happened. They wouldnt have allowed him to frack, so they would have never been able to build it. But what a place that is. It will be open in a little more than a year, but I have to make a decision.
Its a big decision. Do we give up the greatest theme phrase, logo, whatever you want to call it in the history of politics? Risky? For a brand new one because make America great again, were really sort of there, and we have a little time left, right? And now we have a group of socialists or communists could be, could be. Theyre not far away.
Now the fake news will hit me on that. How dare he say that. But theyre not far away right, right? Theyre not far away. 95% -- does anybody want to pay 95% tax in the room? I dont think so. I dont think so. So -- but Im not going to go into their plan because, as far as Im concerned, the green new deal is a beautiful thing.
No, its a beautiful thing. We wanted to continue onward until about a month before the election. I will let them have it like youve never heard before. I dont want them to change. Wow, its like Elizabeth Warren. I did the Pocahontas thing. I hit her really hard and it looked like she was down and out, but that was too long ago.
I should have waited, but dont worry, we will revive it. It can be revived. It can be -- right? It will be revived and it can be revived very easily and very quickly and were going to have some fun in the state of New Hampshire. Now, what do we do ready? Let me have first, make America great again, then keep America great, right?
Just applaud like crazy for the one you want to use for this campaign. And theres a possibility well use both. Theres a possibility well use both because I hate like hell, I hate like hell to give up the one. Is there a possibility well use both? Maybe one a little bit less? Are you ready? So well start make America great again and then keep America great, right?
Are you ready? Whos in favor of the campaign theme being, make America great again? Whos in favor of our theme being, keep America great? So wait a minute! This is your hat. I was going to keep it actually. Thank you. Thank you. So thats really been the reaction. Ive done this before big crowds and it really is keep America great because we have these socialists want to take it away from us. They want to take it away.
So it works -- because until a couple of days ago and that will catch up very quickly. We have no choice. By the way, I never said China was going to be easy, but its not tough and they want to make a deal. We just spoke to them yesterday. They want to make a deal. They want to make a deal. They have to make a deal.
And you know what, it will be wonderful to make a deal. I dont think were ready to make a deal. Were taking in billions of dollars in tariffs and again, Chinas devaluing their currency. Theyre pouring out money. The prices havent gone up, so that means were taking in billions of dollars. Were not paying for it. And ultimately, theyre devaluations are going to hurt them very badly.
They want to make a deal and they should want to make a deal. But when you listen to the fake news, look at how many there are. I mean I actually had something today, I had something today. Are we sure that were in New Hampshire? You know you have a reputation, I mean, I know its not true because I know you too well.
You have a reputation of being very staid, very, very elegant, staid, incredible people. Youre not acting it tonight and thats good. Thats a good thing. We love our country. We have enthusiasm for our country, right? Thats what it is. Thats what it is. Thats what it is. Before the election, our factories were closing.
Hey, who knows it better than you? Youre like central casting for the closing of factories. Our jobs were vanishing. Our military was totally depleted. When I took over, our military was sad. We werent flying half of our planes. They were old. They were tired. Our equipment was tired. Our people werent tired, though.
Our people werent tired. But everything we had was depleted. Now weve rebuilt our military like never before. And all made in the USA to say, you know, and our nation was weakened at home and disrespected abroad. They dont disrespect us anymore, folks. I got NATO to pay an extra $100 billion. They werent paying.
They were delinquent. Many nations were, except for seven, many nations werent paying what they were supposed to be paying. So were supposed to protect them. They kill us on trade. They have all sorts of barriers and everything else. The taxes are really unfair. The tariffs were ridiculous. What they do to us in Europe and then we protect them, then they dont pay.
And I say, Im sorry, folks, you have to pay. You have to pay. They were delinquent. They were delinquent and my biggest fan is Secretary General Stoltenberg from NATO. He said, until President Trump came along, we were going boom. They would have been finished very quickly. But Im tired of paying for other nations anyway.
I have to be honest with you. And today, our nation is stronger than ever before. Were now stronger than ever before. You saw we ended the Iran disaster. How about that? We paid them $150 billion, $1.8 billion in cash. Cash, cash, cash. We got nothing. And they also want to make a deal. China wants to make a deal.
And I will tell you, Iran wants to make a deal because the sanctions are not good for them. They are not happy. So well see how it all turns out, but its in good hands. Its in good hands. The United States right now has the hottest economy anywhere in the world. Were rebuilding that awesome might that we were just talking about, our United States armed forces.
America is working again, America is winning again and America is respected again, respected like never before. They respect us again, and you see it. You know, a recent poll came out where it showed that President Obama was more popular in Germany and other places than I am. And I said, Of course, hes more popular.
Hes not demanding that they pay for their protection that we provide. Hes not doing that. Im doing that. And in fact, if I was the most popular, Im not doing my job right, OK? So true. Weve created over six million new jobs since the election. If I would have said that during the campaign those people back there would have been headlines, headlines.
More than 7 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Since my election, the number of new businesses, starting in the great state of New Hampshire, has skyrocketed by almost 25%. And you cant really go by my election. Youve got to go by November 9th because you know the markets have gone through the roof since November 9th. Thats the day after I won the election.
So I won the election, the markets went up thousands of points. Things started happening. You started doing things that you would have never, even though I didnt get sworn in until January 20th, but they refused to do that. And let me tell you, if for some reason I wouldnt have won the election, these markets would have crashed and that will happen even more so in 2020. See the bottom line is, I know you like me and this room is a love fest, I know that, but you have no choice but to vote for me because your 401s down the tubes, everything is gonna be down the tubes.
So whether you love me or hate me, you got to vote for me. I had a business man the other day, one of the most successful guys in the country. Ive never liked him, never liked them. He never liked me, I never liked him. I see him in the White House, I said, what are you doing here? He said, Im working to make sure you get elected.
I said youve got to be kidding. You dont like me, I dont like you. What the hell is this all about? He said, thats right, weve had our differences. I havent liked you, but to be honest with you, Mr. President, I have no choice. I said, youre right, youre right. First thing Ive ever heard him say that I agreed with him.
Hes got no choice. He got no choice. Unemployment in New Hampshire has reached the lowest rate in actually 31 years. But within a very short period of time, it will be the lowest rate in the history of our country. So think of that, you have the best unemployment, you have the most successful state in the history of your state and in the history of our country, and then you gonna vote for somebody else.
Oh great. Lets vote for Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren. We have the best numbers weve ever had. Lets vote for somebody else. I dont think thats going to happen, folks. I dont think thats going to happen. Only with fixed polls does that happen. Unemployment for African-Americans, youve heard me say this many times, Im very proud of it. Hispanic, Americans and Asian Americans have all reached their lowest rates ever recorded in the history of our country.
Wages are rising quickly. Remember when I used to say, people have been working two and three jobs making less money than they made 21 years ago. I used to say it all the time. Now I can say, for the first time in 20 years, wages are rising and you know whos the biggest beneficiary? Blue collar workers.
My administration is fighting to expand opportunity for citizens of every background and every race, religion, color and creed, very important. Because we are all Americans, we all share the same home. We all share the same heart. We all share the same dreams. We are all children of the same Almighty God.
But at the very moment, when our country should be coming together to enjoy these wonderful blessings, the radical Democrats are trying to tear America apart. They vilify anyone who doesnt share their extreme views. They slander our law enforcement heroes. You see what theyre doing with our police that we love.
You see what theyre doing. Has anyone ever seen anything like the water being thrown on New Yorks finest? Have you ever seen them? And I know a lot of New Yorks finest, theyre not happy,theyre, not happy, and they are great people. These are great, great, proud people. For that to be allowed to happen is a disgrace.
They view everybody as fascists and Nazis. They used the term Nazi. This was a term, you couldnt even use it. Now they use it like on a regular basis, a Nazi. Hes a Nazi. Think of that. Hes a Nazi. You couldnt use it, now they use it. They accuse our heroic border agents of running concentration camps and they do an incredible job, and the Democrats dont want to fix the loopholes or asylum.
They do an incredible job, our border agents. And they look down upon the hardworking citizens who truly make our country run. But while the Democrats rage and rages -- that guy has got a serious weight problem. Go home, start exercising. Get him out of here, please. Got a bigger problem than I do. Got a bigger problem than all of us. Now he goes home and his mom says, what the hell have you just done?
We are continuing our incredible movement, the greatest political movement in the history of our country. Theres never been a movement like this. Never. Our movement is built on love and it is and we love our families. We love our faith, we love our flag and we love our freedom and thats what its about.
And add to that the fact that we love our neighbors and we love our country. Together, we are all united by one fundamental principle. A nations first duty must always be to its own citizens. Its own. We got to take care of our own. You havent heard that from a politician or a political leader in a long time.
Its called America first. Its America first. Were thrilled to be joined tonight by many tremendous Republican leaders and great friends of mine, a man whos doing an incredible job as your governor, because I want to take 100% of the credit for the incredible turnaround of New Hampshire. And I remember it not so long ago, things were not looking good, people were leaving, a lot of bad things were happening, but we have to give him a lot of credit.
Hes been a great governor, Chris Sununu, with a great father too, great father. With a great father. His father was tough. Chris, your father was so tough. He was for somebody else in the primers and then one by one, I won here, I won there, I won there. And then when I won, his father governor, I said, oh, this guy kills me. Hes so tough.
And he said, President Trump will be the greatest of all time. He said -- I said, what happened, what happened? He went from being the toughest critic to the best there is. So I want to say hello to your father. OK, Chris, youll tell him. Great guy. What a family. What a family. Thank you, Chris. New Hampshire Senate Republican Leader Chuck Morse.
Chuck, thanks Chuck. New Hampshire House Republican Leader Dick Hinch. Thank you Dick. Thank you Dick. Great job. A man who is with me right from the beginning. In fact, he had a meeting at his house. His house has never been the same. His house is a disaster now. In fact, somebody said he just sold it, but you know what, because of the Trump economy, Ill bet he sold it for a big, big fat, beautiful profit.
Where is Steve? Steve Stepanek and his life was incredible. Did you make a lot of money on the house? And we destroyed the house. This was the beginning. He held some kind of a meeting for me and he has a nice house, but literally hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people showed up and they destroyed this house.
Its never been the same. No wonder you sold it. They finally gave up. And that was four years ago anyway. Thank you very much both for being here. Appreciate it. What great people. Thank you Steve. Great job. And I hope the buyer of his house didnt hear that little -- Steve, I hope the buyer didnt hear what I just said about your house.
Hell cancel. Thats all right, youll sell it for more to somebody else. Republican Party Chair Ronna McDaniel. You know, Ronna headed up Michigan and for many many years nobody won Michigan as a Republican. But I used to complain and you know I just -- Id go there and Id say, theyre stealing your car business.
I go for years. In fact, five or six years before I even thought about running, for whatever reason they named me, man of the year in Michigan. I said, how come? I didnt even understand it myself, but I was named man of the year. I wasnt even political. That was years before I did this, but I was always complaining that our car business is being stolen.
I mean its sort of obvious, right? Mexico now has 32% of our car business. It all left the state of Michigan. We are bringing it back at a level that nobody has ever seen before our car business. But I went to Michigan and my opponent saw that the Republicans, no way you can win Michigan or Wisconsin. That you just cant. And we had a campaign manager named Ronna McDaniel and Ronna wouldnt stop, sir, can you be here next week?
I said, I dont know. Then I leave and she said, sir, can you come back in three days? I said I dont know. Then I do it and she said, how about another time? And then on election night, she said, sir, it was six oclock the day before the election, in other words, just a short while before the election.
She calls me, sir, can you be here tonight? I said, tonight? And by the way, you know where I was? I was in New Hampshire. Thats right. She said, sir, can you be here tonight? I said, are you sure? I started speaking at 1 oclock in the morning. Now its election day, we had 32,000 people show up. It was like this.
The crowd was just they want to see things happen in our country. They love our country. It went crazy and I left. And I said, I dont know why were going to lose Michigan. Why would we lose Michigan? Look at this and the opponent went there with Barack Obama and Michelle Obama, and she went there much earlier primetime 1 oclock, 2 oclock in the morning is not exactly primetime.
So we had 32,000 and they had a tiny little crowd. And I looked at my people and I said, I know were not supposed to win the great state of Michigan, but I think were going to win Michigan and we won Michigan and we won Wisconsin. We won Wisconsin. Wisconsin was a great victory and we won Pennsylvania and we Won North Carolina and South Carolina and we won Florida.
And I hate to tell you, we should have won New Hampshire. That was taken away. New Hampshire was taken away. It was taken away from us, but we should have. We did great in New Hampshire. We should have won New Hampshire, but thats OK. Im not holding it against you because it was not your fault. But we had a woman in Michigan and I said, when it came time to choosing the head of the Republican National Committee.
I said who the hell is that woman up in Michigan that got me to keep coming there and explaining that we cant continue to lose our car business. We have 17 companies now coming back in. Who is that woman? And it was Ronna. We put her in charge of the Republican National Committee. The job that she has done is incredible.
Thank you. And the same with another man, our campaign manager. He started off as a computer genius and remember when they used to say that the Hillary Clinton campaign is highly sophisticated, highly sophisticated. She did a lot of bad things, folks, 33,000 e-mails deleted after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress.
33,000. Remember she said it was about her daughters wedding and yoga classes? 33,000, yeah. It was disgraceful. I will tell you this, we now have a great attorney general. A fair guy, a great gentleman. So another man whos here tonight is the worlds tallest campaign manager. He is an unbelievable talent.
But they were saying about our opponent, Im not going to mention the name again because Ill never get my -- well never get it finished here. So Ill just say, my opponent, is that better? And they were saying, how sophisticated her campaign was. Except, ours was far more sophisticated and we had a man that did an incredible job and hes now our campaign manager and hes one of the tallest human beings Ive ever seen.
And his name is Brad Parscale. Its nice when you dont have to look for anybody. You just look over and you see a guy whos twice as tall as everyone. Great job Brad. Thank you. How we doing Brad? Good, good. Got great poll numbers. We got great poll numbers in a lot of states, Ohio, Iowa. You know, Iowa, every week that they campaign, our numbers go up. Theyre winning Iowa.
We gave them ethanol, which is very important, a lot of things for Iowa. But every week we seem to be going up in Iowa because theyre campaigning in Iowa. Wherever they go, our numbers go up. Somebody is going to have to explain that one to me someday, but we like it. A man whos, a friend of mine, who was the greatest mayor in the history of new York City, stand up, Rudy, Rudy Giuliani.
Man, he did a job, he did a job in the first year. Ive never seen anything like it. New York was crime infested, we had problems, we had problems like nobody would believe and Rudy went in there and he did the job and people loved him for it. It wasnt like, oh gee, hes a horrible person. People loved Rudy Giuliani.
He was a great, great mayor. So thank you Rudy for being here. And the first person that I put on on the campaign. He was driving me wild. He said, Im saying you can win, sir. You can win. Im telling you, you can win. He loves this state. Hes from the state. He said, you can win, sir. Im just telling you and I had him on for month after month.
Hed come drive me crazy. He say, you can win, you can win, you can win. And finally, we said, lets give it a shot. And I had Corey, I had Hope, I had just a couple of people. We had a rather lean and mean staff, but Corey Lewandowski loves your stay, loves New Hampshire. He was the first one that talked about us, possibly winning the whole big ball game and hes tough and hes smart, and Im hearing hes thinking about running for the Senate from New Hampshire.
I dont know. I think hed be tough to beat. Ill tell you one thing, hell go into Washington and hes going to have you in mind. Hes going to do a job, if he does do it. So well see what happens. He hasnt made up his mind yet. But he would be, he would be fantastic and I guess its something you go back and you talk to your family, you talk to your wife and you make a decision.
Theyre all saying, are you going to support him? I said, I dont know if hes running. So Corey, let us know please, if you dont mind. Let us know. Our shared Republican agenda is pro-worker, pro-jobs, pro-family, pro-growth and 100% pro-American. For decades and decades, the permanent politicians in Washington pursued the very opposite.
They sold out our workers, you see it, you know it better than any place. When I talk about the horrors of NAFTA, the horrors of trade deals, I mean Im sorry to tell you this. I usually refer to New Hampshire. Nobody took it worse than New England and nobody took it worse than New Hampshire. Now, heres the good news.
I would never let that happen again and Chris will never let that happen again. Is there a doctor, please, doctor in the house? Thank you. Doctor in the house? Please, doctor, please. Thank you very much. Take your time. Take your time. Take your time fellas, plenty of time. You know people got here two and a half days ago, many of these people in the front, right?
Two and a half -- two and a half days ago, a lot of these people. So you can understand its pretty tough. Thank you. Thats OK. These are great people. Hes a great people that love our country. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, pretty good, pretty good. So while politicians shift away our jobs, shed our sovereignty, surrendered our dignity and saddled our nation in one foreign debacle after another, and were still here.
Were still here, you better believe taht and were here stronger than ever before, were here. But all of that ended the day that I took the oath of office. The American people are in charge of their country again. Weve cut a record number of job killing regulations that were strangling our country. We cut more regulations in two and a half years than any other president in their full terms.
Four years, eight years or in one case more than that, cut more than anybody. To get relief to working families, we passed the largest package of tax cuts and tax reforms in the history of our country. Youre making a lot more money. Youre making a lot more money and you see it and you know it because you see it in your paycheck every week.
We ended the last administrations coal war on American energy and we are delivering a policy of American energy independence like youve never seen before. And in fact, if you look at the straits where were having all of the problems, you look at the straits, No. 1 theyre not touching our ships. Theyre not playing with our ships.
Theyre taking them from this country, from that country, from that country. But you know what, very importantly, we have very few ships going there anymore because we dont need that oil and gas. And the United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. Every leading Democrat has pledged to abolish the American oil, coal and natural gas industries that are fueling our economic boom.
Can you imagine this? Were sitting on great wealth, they want to take it away from us. And the alternatives dont have the power. They dont have. They want wind, wind, wind is so, so beautiful as long as you dont have to stare at a windmill, and your house goes down in value like theyre nothing. Steve, if you had a windmill anywhere near your house, you would have gotten one-third the price you got Steve, thats true by the way.
Steve is too smart to let that happen. We wont let them take it away from you. We are reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that shattered New Hampshire and your factories. They shattered your communities and they shattered American power and American prestige all around the globe. New Hampshire lost one in four manufacturing jobs following NAFTA and Chinas entrance into the World Trade Organization.
Two of the worst deals ever in the history of our world, not just our country. Election after election, politicians came to your state, pretending to have the courage to stand up for the American worker. Then they went to Washington and let other countries push them around and special interests buy them off and steal your jobs and take your companies.
What happened? Me, I dont care about their campaign contributions. It doesnt matter to me folks. We want to do a job. We want to do a great job and were setting records, and you know whos sending us the money, the small donors. Well, we have big donors, but we have small donors, are sending us the money for the election.
Pretty amazing, thats not supposed to happen to a Republican, but its happening to this republic and its happening to you. Every vow that politicians made was broken, every hope was dashed and every promise turned into a total betrayal of New Hampshire and of our country. But in this administration we have something those sell out politicians could only dream of its called strength and commitment.
We dont play games. We dont play games. After years and years of building up other countries, we are finally building up our country standing up for our jobs, our workers and standing up for our dignity. The forgotten men and women of America will never ever be forgotten again. You were forgotten. The last administration was Sleepy Joe and Obama tried to ram through one of the worst trade deals ever negotiated, worse than NAFTA, worst than WTO.
It was called the Trans-Pacific Partnership. It would have been a disaster. TPP would have gutted the American auto industry. Would have been in shambles. Our auto industry is coming back so strong. It would have gutted, would have destroyed the industry. But in my first week in office, I proudly withdrew the United States from that job, destroying catastrophe.
And were imposing beautiful, well-placed tariffs. Money comes in on foreign countries that cheat our workers, steal our jobs and break all the rules. Im sorry. And by the way, theyve been changing and charging tariffs on us for years. We have countries that charge us 100%, 200%, 297% in the case of Canada, with your farm products, were not going to stand for it. And man, did we turn things around and weve just started.
If companies dont want to pay a tariff, I have one simple solution: come make your product in America, come make your product in New Hampshire, zero tolerance, zero, zero, zero. Together, were restoring this nations industrial might and we are doing it with American iron, American aluminum and American steel.
Were doing steel. Steel industry is hot. They were dumping steel all over. They were destroying our companies. U.S. steel now, all of them. Theyre all expanding. The steel industry is back. Its doing great. Were opening up mines in Minnesota, the great state of Minnesota. They have magnificent mines that have the best iron ore in the world and President Obama closed them down.
Maybe we can get representative Omar from Minnesota to open it up, but I dont think so. Shell open them up. I dont think so. Representative Omar, thats another one. Were replacing NAFTA with a brand new USMCA, thats Mexico and Canada. Great deal. The USMCA will create countless jobs for farmers, manufacturers all across the state.
We need Congress to pass the USMCA immediately. Well make it a bipartisan deal. We dont even want credit. The unions benefit, the non-unions benefit, everybody benefits. It brings it back to fairness, and it makes it very hard for our companies to leave our countries go to Mexico or Canada. We lose all our jobs.
We lose all our taxes. We end up with empty factories and plants. It makes it almost impossible. Were not going to have that. That was my one rule that I had to have. Its gonna be very very hard for companies to do that. Ive also taken the toughest-ever action to stand up to Chinas chronic trade abuses.
Earlier this month, the U.S. government officially labeled China for the first time ever, a currency manipulator. Another promise kept. While others allowed China to freely loot the U.S. economy, $500 billion a year, not millions, not million, billion, with a B. Weve made it clear that the theft of American jobs and American wealth is over.
Yet, today the Wall Street Journal editorial board and some others continue to publish foolish articles that demonstrate that they understand nothing about trade or business, nothing. They advocate only economic surrender. They actually say, go to China, take off the tariffs, make a deal. I lose all the cards if we take off the tariffs.
You know how many cards? Think of it. They say, go to Europe, by the way, the European Union is worse than China, just smaller. It treats us horribly, barriers, tariffs, taxes and we let them come in. Its worse than China, many of us come from there. Thats what its got going. Thats about it. They treat us really badly and many others, many many others.
India, tariffs us probably higher than any nation anywhere in the world. We have tariffs of 100% on products and much more than that. India, so were working on all of them. I called Prime Minister Modi. I said, Mr. Prime Minister, not fair. We gonna change. We gonna change. We gonna change, gonna change.
And were talking to them very seriously. Were talking to a lot of places, but when the Wall Street Journal comes out and they say, no, no, take the tariffs off, go and talk to -- theyve been trying to talk to them for 25 years, but actually you know what, they really havent. The fact is, the leaders that were in my position, they didnt do a damn thing.
They didnt talk. They didnt talk. Past leaders followed the terrible advice of these editorial boards that are, frankly, totally inexperienced in business, I guess, and our industries were utterly decimated. Globalism enriches foreign countries at our expense, globalism. I love our country. Im the president of the United States of America.
Im not the president of the world. And as long as Im president, America will never bow to a foreign nation like we were for so many years. As we restore our prosperity, we are also restoring public safety. We are fighting to reduce violent crime. You see so much it over the last 25 years, so much crime.
And ensure that every American can live in safety and peace. And yet, with all that you see, weve had one of the best years of crime prevention that weve ever had. Wouldnt seem that way, but it is one of the best years, because those gentlemen that we just saw, law enforcement, they do a great job. And youve been reading about this a lot lately.
We are working very hard to make sure we keep guns out of the hands of insane people and those who are mentally sick and shouldnt have guns. But people have to remember, however, that there is a mental illness problem that has to be dealt with. Its not the gun that pulls the trigger. Its the person holding the gun.
Years ago, many cities and states, I remember so well closed mental institutions for budgetary reasons. They let those people out onto the street. You probably have your examples up here. I can tell you in New York, they closed so many of them and they let really seriously mentally ill people out on the streets, and you see plenty of them today.
Even today, were going to have to give major consideration to building new facilities for those in need. We have to do it. And at the same time, we will be taking mentally deranged and dangerous people off of the streets so we wont have to worry so much about that. Its a big problem. We dont have those institutions anymore and people cant get proper care.
Theyre seriously ill people and theyre on the streets. We cant make it harder for good, solid law-abiding citizens to protect themselves. We will always uphold the right to self-defense and we will always uphold the Second Amendment. We will. So important. One of the most powerful promises I made to the people of this state was to confront the opioid and drug epidemic.
I used to go around New Hampshire more than any state and youd say, sir, the state is infested. You said, sir, were like a drug den. You tell me, and I didnt really see it, and then I met with the police officers and fire departments and all the people that do, and you just seem to have a bigger problem -- and by the way, the wall is being built.
Thats going to stop a lot of it. Wall is being built. You know we have the fake news, you know about that, were they -- a wall thats lying on the ground in a very important section, so we pick up the wall, bits and pieces. I mean, literally, its gone and we build a brand new 30-foot steel and concrete wall and the fake media said, he didnt build the wall.
Thats just renovation. There was no wall. Its lying on the ground. People walk right over it. Its rotted rusted gone. We take it away, we put a brand new wall up, they give me no credit. You know why? Because theyre fake news, thats why. Were building a lot of wall. The Army Corps of Engineers is doing a great job.
Theyre doing a great job. Since I took office, weve attacked the challenge with everything we have. We have secured a record $6 billion in new funding opioid. We vastly increase the distribution of overdose, reversing drugs, which are pretty amazing things. Weve given them to your police department, your fire department, pretty amazing.
We have reduced the total amount of opioids prescribed by 34% and the Department of Justice has prosecuted more than 3,000 defendants in opioids-related cases and our public awareness campaign about the terrible suffering that drugs inflict has already reached 58% of all young Americans. I said that you have to show them were doing ads, beautiful ads in shows and youve seen them.
I dont even want to describe them. Theyre brutal. But were doing ads on television and papers about how bad it is for children. So they can see it because the greatest thing we could do is not get people started on drugs, right? Not get them started. Its hard to get off. You know we can get them off and were doing it and its been done, but its hard to get off.
If they never start, its real easy. Its real easy. So were trying to get young kids. You wont see the fruits of this labor for a little while because it takes a while, but were really -- we are working so hard on advertising and promotions to tell young kids, children how bad drugs are, how dangerous they are, how horrible they are, how they destroy your brain, how they do so many bad things.
And theyre really very tough ads theyre hard hitting ads, and I think theyre having a big impact. Youll see. Over time, youll see. But we still have much work to do. But as a result of these efforts, last year, we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths in 31 years. Its pretty amazing.
And at the center of Americas drug crisis is the border crisis. Vast quantities of deadly narcotics are being smuggled across the border, including meth, cocaine, heroin and fentanyl. And as part of my trade deal with China, its been very important and President Xi said hes going to do it. So far, he has not done it. But I said, you have to stop sending us fentanyl, you have to. And you have to criminalize in China the making of fentanyl and so far, he has not come through, but I think he will.
Youll know. Youll know. Yet Democrats want to open borders and Republicans want strong borders. Thats the difference. One wants open borders. Who can even think of an open border? Think of it. Even though many people that come into our country are wonderful people, theyre still coming in illegally. Theyre not coming in through merit, but what about the bad ones?
We have serious, serious criminals that want to come in. And if we had open borders, they would be flowing in like youve never seen before. Democrats want open borders, they dont mind crime, we do mind crime and thats the way it is. Democrats also support deadly sanctuary cities. Last year alone, sanctuary cities declined more than 17,000 requests from federal authorities to hand over criminal aliens already in their custody.
In other words, 17,000 criminal aliens were released by these cities directly into U.S. communities. You dont understand even what the hell are they doing? What are they doing? 17,000. Republicans believe our cities should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans, not for criminal aliens. And we will always support the amazing heroes of ICE and Border Patrol and we will always support law enforcement.
Every Democrat candidate also wants to give illegal immigrants free welfare. Republicans believe public benefit should be protected for truly needy Americans, not for illegal aliens, and we should reduce our taxes and many other things with all of that money that were talking about. We need to elect a strong Republican majority to end sanctuary cities, stop human traffickers, stop drug smugglers and adopt an immigration system that puts the needs of American workers and families first.
Its also time for Democrats to join with us to protect the sacred integrity of our elections by supporting voter ID, voter identification. Its incredible. They constantly saying, oh, we need to protect them. But theyre not looking for that. Theyre not looking for that. We say, what about voter ID? In other words, you have a picture.
You have to go up. What about voter ID? That they dont want to do. But we need voter ID. The Democrat Party has never been farther outside the mainstream. Where do they come from? You know, you say you want low taxes, good education, strong military, strong borders, you want to have safe homes, you want a house, you want low interest rates, you got low -- hey, you got low interest rates, the lowest ever.
Got lowered rates. Good time to refinance your house, by the way, great time. You got everything and then you see these people theyre against. They have no idea what theyre doing. They have no idea what theyre against. Every major Democrat running for President supports a massive government takeover of health care that would raid Medicare and destroy the private health insurance plans of millions of American families that they love.
My administration is defending your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you. The individual mandate is gone, the most unpopular part of Obamacare, and we almost have Obamacare gone. Were close. We would have had it before, but we had a vote that was a little bit surprising. Im sure none of you knew who that vote was.
We had it done, repeal and replace. But its got to happen and I think its going to actually be in the end, actually better. You watch. So we got rid of the individual mandate, which was the most unpopular part of Obamacare and were running it better. You know I had a political decision, do I make it great?
Alex Cesar, our secretary, do we run it well? And sort of say, hey, we run it well or do we run it badly and have everybody upset? We said, we got to run it well, but its still much too expensive. Its lousy health care, but we got rid of the worst part of it, individual mandate, individual mandate, where you have the privilege of buying the right not to have to pay for expensive insurance.
Thats no good health insurance. And we will -- and youve got to remember this, Republicans and I speak for every one of them. We will always protect pre-existing conditions. Were going to protect, always. Right? Got to do it. Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in 51 years and the only decline in 51 years.
We have launched a historic initiative to require price transparency, empowering you to choose the lowest price for yourself and for your family, believe it or not. You didnt have the right to go in and price your drugs. Who could even believe this? I wonder if big pharma had something to do with that. So were gonna have transparency.
Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mothers womb, right up until the moment of birth. And in the case of the Virginia governor, hes having a rough, rough time. In his case, the baby is born and then he goes to talk to the mother. The doctor talks to the mother.
The baby is now born, wrapped, as he said, and then they decide whether or not to execute the baby. That is why Ive asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift of God. Hard to believe, isnt it? The democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late-term abortion and socialism.
The Republican Party is the party of freedom. We are the party of the American worker, the American family and the American dream, and Im fighting for you each and every day. So importantly, we have confirmed more than 140 federal judges. Within 90 days, it will be 179 federal judges. Thank you very much, President Obama.
Thank you very much. I dont know what happened to them, but I came to office and I had 138 judges that were not appointed by President Obama. So I say thank you, Mr. President, very good and theyll say, he was a great president. Oh really, the fake news. He was a great President. If he was a great President, how come he left to me a 138 judges to appoint when everybody says thats the single most important thing a President of the United States has to do. Great President.
He was great. He was a great president. And these judges will apply the law as written, including we appointed 2 great Supreme Court Justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh. And to help patients with life threatening illnesses, we also passed something Im so proud of. 44 years, they couldnt get it passed, right to try.
You can use our newest, our best medicines. Incredible of whats happening, Im so proud of that. And this from forever, 5 decades, we passed for our great veterans, VA choice and VA accountability. And one of our great friends was a veteran whos been with me in New Hampshire. I dont know where you are.
Where is our guy? Where is he? So well -- so I walk in, I said, hes been with me from the beginning. He was there whether -- he liked Trump and I came in. He said, sir -- hes a great veteran. He said, sir, I have cancer and sir, I went into the vet, they were very, very late. They had problems. Im not blaming them, but they gave me the right to go out and get a great cancer surgeon.
He had his operation. You look much better than you did three years ago, Al. Much better, much better. VA Choice right, Al? VA Choice. Great story. Thank you very much and thank you for your loyalty. Youve been -- hes been to every rally I ever gave in New Hampshire right from the beginning. I got so tired of looking at him.
Hed always be here. Now hes -- look at him, now hes sitting in very good, thats good, but I appreciate that story. I appreciate. VA choice just make sense, right? Doesnt it make sense? Weve achieved record funding for the United States military, $716 billion, $700 billion and $738 billion and its almost completely rebuilt, including and we hope to God we never have to use it, we have the finest most powerful nuclear capability anywhere on the face of the earth and I hope to God we never have to use it. Were investing in the future of human spaceflight and someday soon, American astronauts will plant the stars and stripes on the surface of Mars.
And I told my guys at NASA, you know NASA when we took it over, it was exhausted. The runways and the grounds that are all weeds growing through the cracks in the concrete. You wouldnt recognize it now, its beautiful, its the best place anywhere on earth. And I also said that you know, I hear all these rich guys for some reason they love space.
So theyre rich. I said, let them send the rockets up. Why the hell do we have to do it, right? So I see Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, theyre putting rockets up, I think its great and they pay us rent. They use our facility. Thats great. But were also doing it and NASA has some of the greatest plans weve ever had.
These are great people, great scientists, but we also let the private sector put up rockets, the one which recently went up and you see the engines coming back down and theyre come -- theres no wings, no nothing. Its almost like what are we watching? Is this fiction? And they come down and they save all of the propellants.
All of the -- really the most expensive parts, theyre able to save it by bringing it back right to where it took off. Who would think they could do this? I never saw this before six months ago, but theyre doing it now more and more. Theyre saving a lot of the most important and expensive parts of rockets.
So we have a lot of rich guys paying us a lot of rent, but were also doing it ourselves to protect Americas security. I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. I recognized Israels true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And just three months ago, we also recognized the Golan Heights as being a part of and protected by Israel.
For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the people of New Hampshire. Thank you. And you must never forget the 2020 election right around the corner. 2020 right around the corner, and its about one thing.
You know what the one thing is? You. Its about you. Its about your family, its about your future and its about the fate of your country. So when we ran together last time, we said, the most important ally we had to turn it around. This country was going bad, you see what happened to Venezuela with socialism?
Venezuela 15 years ago, was one of the richest countries. Now they dont have water, they dont have food, they dont have anything and this was one of the richest nations in the world. They dont have anything. Were working on it. Were helping people. But its very sad, its never going to happen to us because we will never ever be a socialist nation ever.
No matter what label they use. A vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction, the destruction of the American dream. We have a dream. Its a great dream. This is the destruction of the American dream. We begin this campaign tonight with the best record, the best results, the best agenda and the only positive vision for the people of New Hampshire and for the people of America.
Together, we will lift millions more citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity, millions and millions of people. With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and lawful system of immigration. We will enact trade deals that are already happening, that ensure more products are proudly stamped with that beautiful phrase Made in the USA.
We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, ending the AIDS epidemic in America and finding new cures for childhood cancer. And something I never thought Id be able to say within 1 decade, the AIDS epidemic in the United States will be gone. Think of that. Did you ever think youre going to hear that?
No, did you ever think youre going to hear that? The work theyve done on AIDS is incredible. Thats an incredible thing. When they told me that, I said, its just shattering -- it just -- it breaks your heart of whats happened but think of it. In ten years, the AIDS epidemic will be eradicated. So great.
Who thought that was going to be happening? Who thought Id be able to get to say that so early in what were doing together. We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms. Above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one America, we will support, protect and defend the constitution of the United States.
We will stand with the incredible men and women of law enforcement. We believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history and to always respect our great American flag.
And through every day and every challenge, our hearts speak to the words of the New Hampshire state motto: live free or die. We are fighting for every American mom and dad who wants to protect this land of liberty for their precious, beautiful children. We are fighting for every young boy and girl who deserves to grow up in a nation of builders and dreamers, pioneers and patriots.
And we are fighting for every citizen of the greatest republic on the face of this earth. Everyday in my presidency, we will never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us, the brave, this beautiful, strong, proud and free future. It belongs to us. Its up to us. We control our own destiny.
