Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Signs Memorandum on China Tariffs|March 22, 2018
Well, thank you everybody. This has been long in the making. Youve heard many, many speeches by me and talks by me, and interviews where I talk about unfair trade practices. Weve lost, over a fairly short period of time, 60,000 factories in our country -- closed, shuttered, gone. Six million jobs, at least, gone. And now theyre starting to come back. You see whats happening with Chrysler, with Foxconn, with so many other companies wanting to come back into the United States.
But we have one particular problem. And I view them as a friend; I have tremendous respect for President Xi. We have a great relationship. Theyre helping us a lot in North Korea. And thats China.
But we have a trade deficit, depending on the way you calculate, of $504 billion. Now, some people would say its really $375 billion. Many different ways of looking at it, but any way you look at it, it is the largest deficit of any country in the history of our world. Its out of control.
We have a tremendous intellectual property theft situation going on, which likewise is hundreds of billions of dollars. And thats on a yearly basis. Ive spoken to the President. Ive spoken to representatives of China. Weve been dealing with it very seriously.
As you know, were renegotiating NAFTA. Well see how that turns out. Many countries are calling to negotiate better trade deals because they dont want to have to pay the steel and aluminum tariffs. And we are negotiating with various countries -- Mr. Lighthizer, Mr. Ross.
We are just starting a negotiation with the European Union because theyve really shut out our country to a large extent. They have barriers that -- they can trade with us but we cant trade with them. Theyre very strong barriers. They have very high tariffs. We dont. Its just not fair.
NAFTA has been a very bad deal for the United States, but well make it better or well have to do something else. The deal we have with South Korea is a very one-sided deal. Its a deal that has to be changed.
So we have a lot of things happening. But in particular, with China, were going to be doing a Section 301 trade action. It could be about $60 billion but thats really just a fraction of what were talking about.
Ive been speaking with the highest Chinese representatives, including the President, and Ive asked them to reduce the trade deficit immediately by $100 billion. Its a lot. So that would be anywhere from 25 percent, depending on the way you figure, to maybe something even more than that. But we have to do that.
The word that I want to use is reciprocal. When they charge 25 percent for a car to go in, and we charge 2 percent for their car to come into the United States, thats not good. Thats how China rebuilt itself. The tremendous money that weve paid since the founding of the World Trade Organization -- which has actually been a disaster for us. Its been very unfair to us. The arbitrations are very unfair. The judging has been very unfair. And knowingly, we always have a minority and its not fair.
So were talking to World Trade, were talking to NAFTA, were talking to China, were talking to the European Union. And I will say, every single one of them wants to negotiate. And I believe that, in many cases -- maybe all cases -- well end up negotiating a deal.
So weve spoken to China and were in the midst of a very large negotiation. Well see where it takes us. But in the meantime, we are sending a Section 301 action. Ill be signing it right here, right now. Id like to ask Bob Lighthizer to say a few words about the 301 and where we are in that negotiation.
And were doing things for this country that should have been done for many, many years. Weve had this abuse by many other countries and groups of countries that were put together in order to take advantage of the United States, and we dont want that to happen. Were not going to let that happen. Its probably one of the reasons I was elected; maybe one of the main reasons. But were not going to let that happen.
We have, right now, an $800 billion trade deficit with the world. So think of that. So lets say we have 500 to 375, but lets say we have 500 with China, but we have 800 total with the world. That would mean that China is more than half. So were going to get it taken care of. And, frankly, its going to make us a much stronger, much richer nation.
The word is reciprocal. Thats the word I want everyone to remember. We want reciprocal -- mirror. Some people call it a mirror tariff or a mirror tax. Just use the word reciprocal. If they charge us, we charge them the same thing. Thats the way its got to be. Thats not the way it is. For many, many years -- for many decades, it has not been that way.
And I will say, the people were negotiating with -- smilingly, they really agree with us. I really believe they cannot believe theyve gotten away with this for so long.
Ill talk to Prime Minister Abe of Japan and others -- great guy, friend of mine -- and there will be a little smile on their face. And the smile is, I cant believe weve been able to take advantage of the United States for so long. So those days are over. Ambassador Lighthizer, thank you.
Thank you very much, Bob. Secretary Ross.
Mike Pence, would you like to say something?
So well sign right now. I just want to let everybody know, just for a second time, that we are in the midst of very major and very positive negotiations. Positive for the United States and, actually, very positive for other countries also.
We have some of our great business leaders -- and leaders, period -- right behind me. I may ask Marillyn -- Lockheed -- the leading womans business executive in this country, according to many. And we buy billions and billions of dollars worth of that beautiful F-35. Its stealth. You cannot see it. Is that correct?
Better be correct. Right?
Marillyn, please say a few words.
Thank you, Marillyn. This is the first of many. This is number one, but this is the first of many.  Thank you all very much. Marillyn. Thank you very much.
