Donald Trump|Press Gaggle: Donald Trump Speaks to the Press Before Marine One Departure|July 12, 2019
I think he was a great Labor Secretary, not a good Labor Secretary. Hes done a fantastic job. Hes a friend of everybody in the administration. And I got a call this morning, early, from Alex. And I think he did a very good job yesterday. Under a lot of pressure, he did a fantastic job and he explained it. He made a deal that people were happy with, and then, 12 years later, theyre not happy with it. Youll have to figure all of that out.
But the fact is, he has been a fantastic Secretary of Labor. And Alex called me this morning and he wanted to see me. And I actually said, "Well, we have the press right out here, so perhaps you just want to say it to the press." But I just want to let you know, this was him, not me, because Im with him.
He was a -- hes a tremendous talent. Hes a Hispanic man. He went to Harvard. A great student. And, in so many ways, I just hate what hes saying now because were going to miss him. But, please, Alex.
Theres no need at all, as far as Im concerned. I would have -- I watched Alex yesterday. I thought Alex did a great job. And, you know, you could always second guess people, and you could say it should have been tougher. They do it with me all the time. I make a great deal with anybody, and then they say -- like, the Democrats -- "Oh, it could have been better." I got $1.2 billion settlement fined from a company, from ZTE. And the next day -- and everybody couldnt believe it. The next day, the Democrats said, "Oh, he should have gotten more." So you can always be second guessed.
Thats what people do. I just want to tell you: This is a person that Ive gotten to know. There hasnt been an ounce of controversy at the Department of Labor until this came up. And hes doing this not for himself; hes doing this for the administration. And, Alex, I think youll agree. I said, "You dont have to do this." He doesnt have to do this.
I do, and we have -- we have -- as everybody knows, we have Pat Pizzella, who right now is a deputy, and hell be Acting for a period of time. I think you know Pat. Hes a good man, highly recommended by Alex. But Pat is going to be Acting, and weve already informed him.
Yes. And I did have a falling out a long time ago. The reason doesnt make any difference, frankly. But I havent spoken to him in probably 15 years or more. I wasnt a big fan of Jeffrey Epstein, that I can tell you. And now, if you look, the remnants hurt this man. And I hate to see it happen. I will say this, and I say it again and I say it loud and clear: Alex Acosta was a great Secretary of Labor.
What hes done with plans and -- you see the plans coming one after another. Youre just about done with the 401 and --
-- and that happened. Things that nobody would even think of. So its very sad. But at the same time, he wants the focus to be on accomplishments, not on what youre talking about.
Well, Alex believed that. Im willing to live with anything, John. I think you know me. Ive lived through things that you wouldnt believe. Alex felt that way. And he also felt -- were so good; were doing so well. The economy -- the stock market just hit the highest point yesterday in the history of our country.
Our unemployment numbers are the best theyve ever been. If you look at specifically certain groups -- African American, Asian, Hispanic -- the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country. You know, there are so many good things, and he didnt want to distract from that. And I understand that, 100 percent.
For what?
So Paul Ryan was not a talent. He wasnt a leader. When the people in Freedom and great congressmen wanted to go after the Dems for things that they did very badly, he wouldnt give subpoenas, whereas Nancy Pelosi hands them out like theyre cookies. Paul Ryan was a lame duck for a long time as Speaker.
He was unable to raise money. He lost control of the House. The only success Paul Ryan had was the time that he was with me because we got taxes cut. I got regulation cuts. I did that mostly without him. But for Paul Ryan to be complaining is pretty amazing. I remember a day in Wisconsin -- a state that I won -- where I stood up and made a speech, and then I introduced him and they booed him off the stage -- 10,000 people.
So for him to be going out and opening his mouth is pretty incredible. But maybe he gets paid for that. Who knows? Maybe he gets paid for that.
So people come into our country illegally. Were taking them out legally. Its very simple. Its not something I like doing, but people have come into our country illegally. Were focused on criminals. Were focused on -- if you look at MS-13 -- but when people come into our country, we take those people out and we take them out very legally.
They all have papers. And its a process. And I have an obligation to do it. They came in illegally; they go out legally. What the Democrats should be doing now is they should be changing the loopholes. They should be changing asylum. Ive been talking to that -- to you about this for a long time. They should be changing asylum.
Theres so many things. Now, let me -- let me give you the good news: Mexico has done an outstanding job so far. If you look at the border, its down now 30 percent, and thats only one week inclusive where theyve gotten it together. The June numbers just came out. Its down. It looks like its going to end up being a little bit above 30 percent down.
Its going to be down more and more. They have 21,000 -- and I say "21,000" -- Mexican soldiers on the borders -- both their southern border and our southern border. And we really have it in control. The problem is -- we have a big problem. The laws are so bad. The Democrats have to help us fix the immigration laws.
But even with that, because of the job that Mexico is doing -- and, yes, they maybe did it because of tariffs, but theyre doing a great job and I appreciate it.
No, no. Who said -- who said that?
Look, anything you do, the Democrats will say its not good. In the meantime, they had a disaster. They had these laws that are so bad -- catch-and-release, and you look at the different laws -- visa lottery, that was a Chuck Schumer law. Its a disaster. A lottery. You pick them out. A lottery. The Democrats have caused tremendous problems.
What theyve let China get away with -- for years and years, China has been ripping us off. Theyre not ripping us off anymore. Right now, companies are fleeing China because of the tariffs. And right now, were taking in billions of dollars. And, by the way, our people are not paying for it. Theyre paying for it -- theyre paying for it by depressing their currency and theyre putting a lot of money.
Look, nobodys ever done what Ive done with China. And thats fine. And well get along with China. But you know, when I see a guy like Biden, who is weak and ineffective -- and everybody that knows him knows it. Hes a weak man. Hes an ineffective man. President Xi laughs at guys like that. Now, with that being said, I would say this: President Xi, Putin, all of these guys go to bed at night and they pray that Joe Biden or somebody like him becomes President so they can continue to rip off our country.
No, I had no idea. I had no idea. I havent spoken to him in many, many years. But I had -- I didnt have no idea.
We are looking into it. The platforms are absolutely, in my opinion, 100 percent crooked. They discriminate against Republicans and conservatives. Theyre 100 percent dishonest. Thats my opinion. And something is going to be done. But I can tell you, from personal experience, I see it. I had something happen this morning -- I wont tell you about it yet -- but these platforms are 100 percent -- theyre 100 percent dishonest. Please.
I was not a fan of Jeffrey Epstein. And you watched people yesterday saying that I threw him out of a club. I didnt want anything to do with him. That was many, many years ago. It shows you one thing: that I have good taste. Okay? Now, other people, they went all over with him. They went to his island. They went all over the place.
He was very well known in Palm Beach. His island -- whatever his island was, wherever it is -- I was never there. Find out the people that went to the island. But Jeffrey Epstein was not somebody that I respected. I threw him out. In fact, I think the great James Patterson, who is a member of Mar-a-Lago, made a statement yesterday that, many years ago, I threw him out.
Im not a fan of Jeffrey Epstein.
Yes. Yes.
You know what? You know what? They came in illegally. They have to go out. We have millions of people standing on line waiting to become citizens of this country. Theyve taken tests. Theyve studied. Theyve learned English. Theyve done so much. Its -- theyve been waiting seven, eight, nine years. We have some waiting 10 years to come in. Its not fair that somebody walks across the line and now theyve become citizens of the United States.
Well, I wish the British ambassador well. Some people just told me -- too bad -- but they said he actually said very good things about me. He was sort of referring to other people. And I guess I quoted Lindsey Graham today; he said some things that were pretty nice from the British ambassador. But look, I wish the British ambassador well.
But theyve got to stop their leaking problems there just like they have to stop them in our country.
Were not giving warning.
No, were not giving warning.
Theres nothing to be secret about.
Can I tell you what?
Theres nothing to be secret about. ICE is law enforcement. Theyre great patriots. They have a tough job. Nothing to be secret about. If the word gets out, it gets out. Because hundreds of people know about it. Its a major operation. So if the word gets out, it gets out. It starts on Sunday, and theyre going to take people out and theyre going to bring them back to their countries.
Or theyre going to take criminals out, put them in prison, or put in them in prison in the countries they came from. Were focused on criminals as much as we can, before we do anything else.
For instance, MS-13 -- very important -- were taking them out by the thousands. Weve already been taking -- you know, we didnt stop this. Weve been taking criminals out for the last year. These people have been here for many years -- MS-13. Were taking them out by the thousands. Were getting them out.
I think well have it in the end where itll be actually more accurate than a census. Because we have information, gotten through other means, whether you look at Social Security or other places. We have -- including loan applications -- we have information thats probably more accurate than the information we could get by going in and asking somebody, "Are you a citizen?" Because a lot of people arent going to tell the truth.
No. No. Not only didnt I back down, I backed up. Becau- -- anybody else wouldve given this up a long time ago. The problem is we had three very unfriendly courts. They were judges that werent exactly in love with this whole thing. And they were wrong. But it wouldve taken a long time to get through those courts.
You understand that better than anybody, John. It wouldve taken a long time back up to the Supreme Court. So I asked, "Is there another way?" And somebody said theres a way that might be better. It might be more accurate. They explained it. I said, "Then what are we wasting time -- were going to be in court for the next two years.
What are we wasting time for?" In the meantime, we have to, by law, have the printing done. So the printing has starting and were already finding out who the citizens are and who theyre not -- and, I think, more accurately. So, when I heard this, I said, "I think thats actually better. I think what were doing is actually better." And only the fake news, which theres plenty, would say differently.
No, he didnt let me down. No.
These are great professionals. These are people that have done this for a long time. Were really looking for criminals as much as we can. Were trying to find the criminal population, which has been coming into this country over the last 10 years. We know who they are, too. Weve been taking them out by the thousands -- specifically, gang members from MS-13 and other gangs.
Weve been taking them out by the thousands.
But we are really specifically looking for bad players, but were also looking for people that came into our country not through a process -- they just walked over a line. They have to leave.
Some do. No. No. No. The mayors in sanctuary cities, like -- a mayor like de Blasio, who is probably the worst mayor in the country -- from New York. I dont even know what his attitude is. Nobody does because he doesnt work very hard. Nobody knows what the hell he does. But a guy like de Blasio probably wouldnt want the raid.
But many mayors do -- most mayors do. You know why? They dont want to have crimes in their cities or states.
So nobody has treated the military better than President Trump. Nobody. Nobody has even come close. And you see that with budgets, you see that with the pay increases, and you see that with medical. But you know where you see it more than any place is with the vets. Because the vets now have Choice. They never had Choice before.
For forty- --
Wait. Wait. Wait. For 44 years --
Wait. Wait. For 44 years -- we are looking at that. For 44 years, theyve tried to get Veterans Choice. I got it. Nobody else couldve gotten it.
Okay. Go ahead.
Say it.
Well, I think, how many bites at the apple do you get?
Weve gone through 500 witnesses, 2,500 subpoenas. Ive let them interview my lawyers. Ive let them inter- -- because I had nothing to do with Russia. Now thats come out. There was no collusion.
But how many -- how many people and how many times -- and this has been going on for two and a half years. Rush Limbaugh said theres nobody else in the world that he knows that couldve taken it. And on top of taking it, Ive been a great President. Ive done more --
Listen. Listen. Ive done more in two and a half years than any other President -- nobodys even close -- including, we just said, Veterans Choice and all of the other things Ive gotten. But for two and a half years -- so now they have Mueller go make a speech. That goes. Now they wanted to have him again.
They want to go it again and again and again because they want to hurt the President for the election. Because I see what Im running against. You got Sleepy Joe Biden. He doesnt have the energy to be President. And the people that nipping on his heels -- they dont have what it takes. And I can tell you that China and Russia -- and Ive been rougher on Russia than any President in the last 50 years.
China and Russia and try North Korea -- where I have a relationship. You dont have a man testing nuclear anymore. You have a man --
Wait. Wait. You have a man that was so happy to see me. Thats a good thing, not a bad thing. You have a man that doesnt smile a lot. But when he saw me, he smiled. He was happy. You have a man that, when I came into to office, all he was doing before under Obama was testing nuclear weapons and blowing up mountains.
And now hes not doing it.
Theres nothing he can say. Hes written a report. The report said, "No collusion." And it said, effectively, "No obstruction," because theres no obstruction. And the other thing, its very interesting --
So they find out theres no collusion. The whole thing is about collusion. So they find out its no collusion. Now, actually, it was different; it was bad crimes committed by the other side. Well find out about that. Im sure thats being looked at right now.
So -- so theres no collusion and theres no obstruction. Now, we have a great Attorney General now -- hes strong and hes smart -- and he read it and he studied it -- along with Rod Rosenstein, who worked it from the beginning. And Rod Rosenstein and Bill Barr said, "Theres no obstruction." Its also interesting -- number one, theres no crime.
And how do you obstruct when theres no crime? Also, take a look at one other thing. Its a thing called Article II. Nobody ever mentions Article II. It gives me all of these rights at a level that nobody has ever seen before. We dont even talk about Article II. So they ruled: no collusion, no objection.
Very simple.
And you can only -- by the way, you can only get so many bites at the apple. We got to get on to running a country. You got immigration, infrastructure, drug prices. The Democrats arent working. All theyre doing is trying to hurt people like Alex Acosta, a man who has done --
-- a man who has done -- I have no idea. Are you a Democrat?
I have no idea. You know what I know? You know what I know about Alex? He was a great student at Harvard. Hes Hispanic, which I -- which I so admire, because maybe it was a little tougher for him, and maybe not. But he did an unbelievable job as the Secretary of Labor. Thats what I know about him. I know one thing: He did a great job.
And until this came up, there was never an ounce of problem with this very good man. Go ahead.
Well, I think Cortez -- who kept Amazon out of New York, and they dont like her for that; thousands and thousands of jobs -- I think Cortez is being very disrespectful to somebody thats been there a long time. I deal with Nancy Pelosi a lot, and we go back and forth and its fine. But I think that a group of people is being very disrespectful for her -- to her.
And you know what? I dont think that Nancy can let that go on. A group of people that came from -- I dont know where they came from. Im looking at this Omar from Minnesota, and if one half of the things theyre saying about her are true, she shouldnt even be in office. But Cortez should treat Nancy Pelosi with respect.
She should not be doing what shes doing. And Ill tell you something about Nancy Pelosi that you know better than I do: She is not a racist. Okay? She is not a racist. For them to call her a racist is a disgrace.
Yeah -- and very importantly, today, in a few hours, Vice President Pence and the head of Homeland Security are taking the press and congresspeople into detention centers. And were the ones that said they were crowded. Theyre crowded because we have a lot of people. But theyre in good shape. And the reason is because the fake-news New York Times wrote a phony story.
What Border Patrol is doing -- theyve become nurses and janitors and doctors. And theyre not trained for that. What theyve done is so incredible. So theyre touring detention centers. And that was my idea because I read a phony story in the New York Times today -- or the other day -- about the detention centers, about the conditions.
And I had people calling me up at the highest levels from Border Patrol and ICE, almost crying, about that phony story. And they never saw anything. They have phony sources. They dont even have sources. They write whatever they want. The New York Times is a very dishonest newspaper. They write what they want.
And what they do is a tremendous disservice to this country. They are truly the enemy of the people, Ill tell you that. They are the enemy of the people. And what they wrote about detention centers is unfair. Now, I believe its going to be the center they wrote about, but were taking a tour. They are -- Id love to be there, but Im going to Ohio, Wisconsin.
Ill be going. Ill be going. But Ive seen it. Ive seen it. And these centers are -- I mean, to have Ocasio say, "Theyre drinking out of toilets." She made that up, okay? Thats a phony story. She made it up. And these people, they -- Ill tell you what, Ive been with ICE and Ive been with Border Patrol a lot.
They love those people coming across the border. They love them. And Ive seen it. They love them.
So one of the reasons the Democrats dont want to have a census is because the number of people in the United States, for many years -- you know, for years, youve heard 11 million; its far greater than that. But well find out because Im going to do something much more accurate than the way we -- the way we did it in the census would never have been very accurate.
What were doing will be much more accurate.
The wall is being built. The wall is being built. We had a couple of very good decisions. We had one bad decision. Its very tough. Again, Paul Ryan let us down. Paul Ryan was a terrible Speaker. Frankly, he was a baby. He didnt know what the hell he was doing. The wall let us down. Now, in all fairness, the problem with -- during -- when we had both houses -- in the Senate, you need 60 votes.
Well, we dont have 60 votes. We had 51 last time. Now we have 53 because we won during the 18 election, which nobody wants to say, just so you understand. So the wall is being built. We had one setback. We had one tremendous victory. And I had a tremendous victory that was very rarely covered by the press.
Two days ago, I won the emoluments case. That was the biggest case of them all. I won the emoluments case. People dont know that, by being President, I lose billions of dollars. By my being President -- and especially in money I cant make because I dont do deals. But I lose billions of dollars. But, another thing, I get a salary of $400- or $450,000 a year.
I dont think any other President has ever given up -- its a lot of money, almost a half a million dollars. I give it up. I dont think Ive ever seen anybody say, "I give up my salary." Im not looking for credit, but I give up my salary. I get zero. I get zero. But you know what makes me happy?
That were doing a great job. And I want to thank Alex Acosta. He was a great, great Secretary.
Iran better be careful. Theyre treading on very dangerous territory. Iran, if youre listening, you better be careful.
