Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Speaks at a Social Media Summit at The White House|July 11, 2019
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Please sit down. I want to thank you all for being here. Very special day, very important day. Many of you are friends and many of you are friends that I dont know what you look like but I know what you sound like -- -- which I guess is probably more important, right?
But I want to thank you and its a terrific -- its a terrific day to be together and if you look you are in a very famous place. We all work very hard and I dont know if you call it influence, I dont if you call it power but whatever it is we are in the White House and we are going to stay in the White House and we are going to get our agenda done and completed beautifully.
So I am thrilled to welcome you here and we are all working very hard and I dont if you know but we just hit 27,000 on the Dow, thats the highest in history. We are up a couple of hundred points today. The highest in history for those of you that like the stock market. The stock market means jobs; I view it as jobs and I view it as 401s. When the people say oh, the rich people are getting rich but if you look at the numbers the greatest impact proportionately is blue-collar workers in what is happened in this miracle that is happening.
And people with 401s, they are up 72 percent and 67 percent and the wife or the husband whoever is responsible the other one says youre a genius, youre a great financial investor. Darling youre up 77 percent this year. So a lot of good things happen. A lot of people are happy and I think really everybody is happy, some people just arent willing to admit it. Does that make sense?
So this is a historic day. Never before have so many online journalist and influencers and that is exactly what you are, you are journalists and you are influencers come together in this building to discuss the future of social media. Each of you is fulfilling a vital role in our nation. You are challenging the media gatekeepers in the corporate sensors to bring the facts straight to the American people and that is what you are doing.
You were going right to the people possibly we wouldnt be here right now. I asked somebody what do you think I would do without social media? Would I be here because I said I think so but they werent so sure. I have to say that you know that. Im not sure I believe that but I have to say it. But you communicate directly with our citizens without having to go through the fake news filter, very simple.
Together you reach more people than any television, broadcast network by far, not even close. We are delighted to be joined at the summit by someone you know very well, our senior advisor for digital strategy and somebody that has been working for me for a long time, for many years, Dan Scavino. Where is Dan?
Stand up. So long before we were even doing this he was at a club, running a club and other businesses and he was okay at doing it, not the greatest. I wouldnt say the greatest but you know what he was great at, he was always looking at his computer screen. I said that guys incredible so right at the beginning I said that the man and theres nobody better at that and I think Hillary had 28 people and I had Dan.
Right? I had my Dan and he works at about 28 hours a day and he works very hard. He doesnt work. I mean he loves it. He loves it. And his imagination and really working with all of you and many of you will come up with ideas and you will come up with ideas and he will run into my office and so you got to see this.
And a lot of times I will go out I will spend a lot of money on a concept. I will say heres a concept come up with this and we will hire these companies and they want a lot of money and they come back, just happened the other day, right? I said thats terrible; these guys have no talent. The people that have a talent are the people that we deal with and its true and some of you are extraordinary.
Cant say everybody. No, but some of you are extraordinary. The crap you think of is unbelievable. Unbelievable. So Im going to go back to the basics of Washington. Im going to introduce some of my secretaries. Steve Mnuchin. Where Steve? Steve has done a fantastic job. Wilbur Ross. Wilbur. We have a meeting in a little while on the census and citizenship.
Can you believe are you a citizen of the United States of America. Sir, you cant ask that question. Why? Because the court said you cant. We have three very unfriendly courts. They fight us all of the way; the judges dont like us too much I guess. But think of that. Herman , think of that question. Are you a citizen?
We spend -- this is another thing that so crazy $20 billion on a census, $20 billion, they spent $20 billion. I said 20 billion what? $20 billion on a census. They go through houses. They go up, they ring doorbells, they talk to people. How many toilets do they have? How many desks, how many beds, what is their roof made of? The only thing we cant ask is are you a citizen of the United States.
Is that the craziest thing? $20 billion. Pretty amazing. Pretty amazing, Charlie. Also David Bernhardt, great job you are doing, interiors. Hes the largest landlord in the United States. When my friends tell me how big they are -- I just bought another building. Big deal Kevin , right? They bought another building.
Then I look at David Bernhardt he controls half of the United States; Department of Interiors, a lot of land, a lot of beautiful and that we are taking good care of, David, right? Acting Director Russ Vought. Russ, thank you. Great job. We are working on our budget along with some of the great members of Congress and wonderful friend of mine whos my leader, right?
Hes my leader. I tell him that to his face because it makes him feel good. I dont know if I believe that Marshall but Kevin, stand up, Kevin. Kevin McCarthy everybody. Senator Marsha Blackburn of the great state of Tennessee; we campaigned together. And she  , we can say it now, she ran against the most popular Democrat in the last 50 years, he really was good man, right?
And Governor for quite a long time, eight years and she just didnt stop.
She was down by 10 and she won by 12. Thats right. She was down by 10 and she won by 12 and she wouldnt stop. Every day, where is she? Shes here, shes there. Fantastic job you did we are proud of you. Well, thank you, honey. Thats great. It was just honestly working with people that know what they are doing its fun.
That was fun and you know what you are doing. Representative Dan Crenshaw who was very good at this by the way, Dan, very good at this, really good. Thank you. Its great to have you in the party and you have more courage than I do, Dan. Okay. That courage of yours is incredible. Thank you very much. Great job.
A friend of mine and a wonderful person and somebody that has I dont know pretty unlimited future I would say. I hear a lot of very positive things, Liz Cheney. Liz, thank you. And you know I pardoned somebody named Scooter Libby. A lot of you dont know who Scooter Libby is, Scooter Libby is a man that got treated very unfairly and Liz was right in the forefront of that one and I said what do you think Liz and you said absolutely he deserves it and its been a very popular pardon.
He was treated very, very brutally and unfairly. So thank you for that, for that help. Matt Gaetz, where is Matt? Stand up, Matt. Boy, a great defender he gets on television and hes like it doesnt stop and hes smart and hes good and he loves Florida and he loves his people and hes a hard worker. And Matt thank you very much.
I really appreciate it very much. And Mike Johnson. Mike, thank you. Great job, Mike. And I want to thank a man who I said a long time ago when we said lets do it because Josh Hawley is special. He is somebody that I said Josh you got to run. Well, I dont know. You know he had a good set up pretty well, right?
You werent going anywhere; he could do whatever he wanted in his great state unless Im telling you can do it and she turned out -- shes a tough candidate whether you like her or you dont like her -- shes tough, right? And by the end of that that was incredible. That was a hell of a race and he won and hes young and hes brilliant and Im going to ask him to come up and say a few words if you dont mind about what we are doing and come on up right now I think it would be a good time.
And you know, Josh is doing right now, hes doing some very important legislation because we have to do something about what is happening. I never hear about the other side. I could tell you I think Im pretty good at getting out a message, but technologically I would think Im okay, just okay. But I will tell you a lot about things are happening.
I people come up to me, "Sir, we want to follow you. They dont let us on." And it was so different than it was even six, seven months ago. I was picking up unbelievable amounts of people and Im hotter now than I was then, okay? Because you know you also cool off, right? But much hotter -- Especially with the nice new stock market like it is, right?
But no, Im hotter now and I go to Dan, I say, "Hey, whats going on here? It used to take me a short number of days to pick up 100,000 people. Im not complaining. Were like at 60 some odd million, but then we have 5 different sites and we have another site with 25 million we have another site with 10 or 12, then we have Facebook, then we have Instagram.
We have a lot. We have a lot of people, way, way over 100 million, but I use to pick them up and I -- when I say used to, Im talking about a few months ago. I was picking them up 100,000 people every very short period of time. Now its, I would say, 10 times as long. And I noticed things happening when I put out something, a good one that people like Right?
A good tweet, it goes up. It use to go up, it would say 7000, 7008-7000, 7017, 7024, 7032, 70444, right? Now it goes 7000, 7008, 6998. Then they go 7009, 6074. I say, "What is going on? It never did that before." It goes up and then they take it down, then it goes up. I had never had that. Does anyone know what Im talking about with this?
I never had that before. I used to watch it. It would be like a rocketship when I put out a beauty. Like when I said -- remember I said somebody was spying on me? That thing was like a rocket I get a call two -- two minutes later, "Did you say that?" I said, "Yeah, I said that." "Well, its exploding." "Its exploding." I turned out to be right.
I turned out to be right. We turn out to be right about a lot of things. But -- but I never had it. Im just saying from, you know, from the standpoint of -- of somebody that maybe has used social media better than anybody, Josh, because I became president. Im sure I couldve done it, as we said, much -- I would have -- theres no question I wouldve done it either way.
I said to Mark Burnett the other day, so I said, "So the Apprentice. Had I never done the Apprentice," because it was a tremendous hit for 12 seasons, I said, "Had I never done the Apprentice, would I be president?" He said, "Maybe not." And I said, "I think I would have." But Im always going to say that.
Im always going to say it. But it was a great show. But with social media -- so Ive never seen it before where I go up and then come down. Up, down. Up, down. Now ultimately, you get -- but it goes very slowly. But Ive never seen where its subtracted. And I really believe people are -- theyre taking it up as it goes up. And it -- and it -- sometimes it comes down substantially.
A number of months ago I was at a certain number. You know, many millions, and then all of the sudden, I was down over a million, and then I came down. I said, "Whats going on?" And you checked, Dan, and you said, "They say theyre doing adjustments. They say they dont like some of the people." And I dont have the fake people.
You know, a lot of people buy people. I dont want to do that because first of all, if I did it, its a front-page story all over the place. But I know a lot of people, theres no question about it, because I see some numbers that are phony numbers where they have these, you know, many, many millions of followers.
I say theres no way because nobody has any interest in these people. Theres -- they have no -- now, Herman Cain, they have interest in, okay? But they have no interest in these people. Theyre playing games. Theyre playing games. James Woods. I dont know James, but hes an interesting guy and hes a conservative guy and hes a straight shooter.
Hes tough. But then when they want to take him off and other people like him, many in this room, some in this room, its a very, very bad -- its a very bad thing. So I have many millions of followers across various accounts, and together, everyone in this room, we reach over half a billion followers. And I think thats probably a low number because one of the things I get thats a little benefit, Ill go watch like I did Golan Heights.
I gave Israel the -- the real credit over and -- and -- you know, its Golan Heights and Israel. Very important. But I gave representation in the strongest form of the Golan Heights, Israel. I talked about it a little quickly. Theyve been looking at it for 52 years theyve been trying to get it. They couldnt get it. Theyd have many summits where people would fly in, talk about the Golan Heights, and then fly out.
This went on many, many summits. Its about a 52-year period. I said, "What happened?" They said, "Nothing. They fly in, they fly out." Some had beautiful planes, some didnt. Some probably didnt get there by plane, but they have many summits. I said, "Watch, Im going to do this." And I said, "We recognize the Golan Heights as being part of Israel." It was a big thing.
I go, "Watch this." Boom. I press it, and within two seconds, "We have breaking news." John Roberts of Fox was over it. He said, "We have breaking news. Please, break it up." It doesnt matter what theyre talking about, John, does it? He breaks it up. Now, thats Twitter. That social media. I call Twitter a typewriter.
Thats what I really call Twitter because it goes on to Facebook automatically and it goes on to Instagram and it goes on to television, more so Fox than it does CNN. If its something bad, theyll put it on. If I have a spelling deal, they will put it on. "Donald Trump spelled the word the wrong." You know?
He doesnt know how to spell the. He spelled it T-H-I. You know, I couldnt care -- any kind of a punctuation mistake, they put it on. So Im very, very careful. I -- really -- Im actually a good speller. But everyone said the fingers arent as good as the brain. But -- but it is true and its -- its incredible what it does.
I put a social media statement. And I was telling Kellyanne the other what day, I said, "You know, I used to put out like a press release, right? And people would pick it up, sort of." You know, next day, two days, theyd find it sitting on a desk. If I put out -- we hardly do press releases anymore because if I put out on social media a statement like Im going to in a little while on something totally unrelated but a very important statement -- now theyre going crazy.
What is it? Tell me what. Watch. But its very important. But if I put that out in a press release, Im telling you, Kevin, people dont pick it up. Its me -- same. If I put it out on social media, its like an explosion. Fox, CNN, crazy MSNBC, theyre stone cold crazy. I made them a lot of money with the Apprentice and I gave them a top show when they were dying on NBC, but they dont like me too much.
They wanted a big extension. The used Arnold Schwarzenegger instead. Big movie star. You know what? He died. He died. I was there 12 -- 12 years, 14 seasons, and then they pick a movie actor and he dies on us. You know, I own that with -- with Mark Burnett and some people and I said -- they said, "Would you rather have him had been like this tremendous massive success, you own it, so you benefit financially, or would you rather have him die so that you say you did it for 14 seasons, 12 years?" I said, "I think Id rather have him die at it."
That means you dont need the money. Id rather have them . Anyway, but with amazing creativity and determination we are bypassing the corrupt establishment and it is corrupt, and you are bypassing the very, very corrupt media, which not all of it is but much of it is far greater percentage than anyone would understand as the cameras go off they go the red lights look.
Boom. I can always tell. I can always tell. Be in the stadium the red lights are all on and then we start talking about like the media how dishonest it is how corrupt it is, how fake it is and the lights go off. The lights immediately go off and usually immediately come back they say this guy is impossible.
But I want to just say because you people have a lot of courage each and every one of you I say thank you very much on behalf of a nation thank you very much. Its important what youre doing. In many cases, the honest the hones word out. Not in all cases but in many cases. When historians look back at this time they will see that the biggest new stories of this era are totally ignored.
I -- I can tell you that I deal with the media and the spin they put on it or the -- sometimes they leave it out or there is something slightly negative they will make it headline news. They will put it down as headline news. Or even covered up by media they were broken up by citizens or take a look at what is happening or you see stories that should be phenomenal, big beautiful, stories and it turns out that they dont get covered.
We did something yesterday on kidney and kidney dialysis and theres a tremendous number of people with problems with kidneys. And with Secretary Azar it was a big, big important thing. Got very little coverage. And what we did it was such a great thing and I dont care we dont have to get the -- its good for our nation.
Its good for people to read about it and see the strides we have made in what were doing. But that doesnt get covered and it should get covered. And it doesnt get covered for a reason because they dont want to give that to a conservative. They dont want to let that happen. Now if somebody else were in this position such as the previous administration they would make that headline news all over the place what we did yesterday.
But when were doing it we get very little credit to that. But anything bad that happens I always say they can take bad and make it horrible. They can take a good story and make it sort of bad and they can take a great, great story and make it anywhere from good to slightly bad. Its incredible what they can do. I always say I havent had a good story in two and a half years.
I used to get great press. Steve Banuchi knows. He said, man, you get the greatest press until I got deleted. Then its done. But I used to get the greatest press. Possibly one of the reasons Im here. And we get it out in a different way. I didnt think we would have to try. I didnt think it would be this tough and by the way two of those special people I have to say hello to -- to because my wife said I see these two beautiful women, incredible African American women that are on television.
The are unbelievable. This is two years ago. She was before her time. They have no idea who I am talking about. She was, our first lady said you have to see these women. Theyre incredible. Theyre genius and they like you. I said, I want to see them. And I like them. I love them actually, I love them. Come.
So, when the historians look back they are going to see something very important took place right here-before today it took place -- it started taking place a number of years ago and it is something that nobody ever thought would happen. Free speech is a bed rock of American life our Constitutional rights must be forcibly protected and I want you to know that we will always have your back.
We are fighting for you very hard. We are going to be calling a big meeting of your companies for in a week or two that have to be here. And Josh is really leading a very strong group of people. This isnt just Josh. This is you leading a tremendous group and they feel equally as strongly as you because they see the unfairness thats happening.
And, remember we won. We have a bigger voice than anybody. But we dont get covered fairly. Can you imagine if we were covered fairly? We had our best polls like yesterday they were telling me. I said can you imagine if I actually got good press instead of even fair press, I dont want good I want fair. Can you imagine what those numbers would be? They make up stories -- you know the Russian hoax, I call it the Russian hoax, the witch hunt.
All bad publicity and yet we are doing great in the polls. So people understand that the public is very smart but we are getting the word out about so many things not just that. About so many things. And maybe the most important thing about how great our country is doing. Jobs now more people working today than ever in the history of our country.
Everyone in the history of our country. Think of that. Unemployment the best numbers in 51 years for African American the best numbers in our history -- in our history. Right? Including you. And youre making a lot I hope. But Hispanic American, best numbers in history. Stand up. And I like your dress as well very much.
No. Not you, sir. You. Thank you. I saw you the other day. Fantastic job. But Hispanic American the best in history. Asian American the best in history. Women I think  , the best in 75 years. The best -- best unemployment in 75 years. What were doing its nothing like has this has been done. Our military is now stronger when I took it over it was depleted.
We had planes that were so old they couldnt fly. They had to go to the desert to get parts. When we took it over it was not a good situation. We got $700 billion then $716 billion and we are going to be asking for another one this year and its all manufactured in the United States. We make it ourselves.
And thats always good thats jobs you know, in this case jobs arent important compared to military defense. We make the best planes and rockets and military defense in the world. Nothing like it. And we are doing something that is incredible. Our military is strong. Our -- our country is really powerful and really strong.
Never been like this. Whoops. How did a flag get into the White House. I dont like flies. I dont like flies. So, I just want to tell you just in finishing up we had a terrible bias. We had censorship like nobody had any understanding and nobody can believe. When you see the Google executives together and one of their executives decides to put it on the phone, right?
Thats right. Thank you. There he is. Thank you. Stand up, please. Stand up. How good -- what a great job. Somebody said hes controversial. Hes not controversial. Hes truthful. Hes truthful. That was a great job. That was one of many. Thank you. Thank you very much. Fantastic. So, you know, theyre playing with -- with a lot of minds and theyre playing unfairly.
And the funny thing is that in theory -- in theory they shouldnt be liking the other side. They shouldnt be liking the other side -- they should be really liking our side because were the ones that want freedom you see whats happening up on the debate stand you see what they are doing to each other. You see the hate they have up there.
It is a very different philosophy. It is a very different thought. And I say this the election that is coming up is I think and you know, we talked 2016 and I would say maybe thats the most important and certainly I said it but what we are really fighting for there has never been a difference of this candidate, our candidate, your candidate against whoever it may be. There will never be anything like that hopefully again because what they are looking at is pure socialism.
Or worst than socialism. You know, theres a work called communism too. Theres a word called -- they dont like to use it. Very rarely do you hear that. But theres a word called communism and theyre trying to get socialism over the line. But these people are -- this is beyond socialism to a larger extent and I think we are going to have a tremendous success.
We had a sort of an opening rally in Orlando, Florida. We had 109,000 maybe more I think it was one and two come we were doing as much as we could to keep people not from coming. We had a 21,000 seat stadium and then with the basketball court it held way more than that. It was packed. We had a similar number outside.
And we had thousands and thousands of people that wanted to be there and this was an opening and this was like a Biden they said he had 600 -- that wasnt 600 that was 150 people. That was 150 that was a very small crowd. And even the big crowds if they have 100 thats a big crowd. We have enthusiasm thats far greater than the left.
Its not even a contest. They wont even say that. They never will say that. We had on the mall just the other day the fourth of July a tremendous success it was pouring. The weather was just -- it was beautiful in one way. Orlando was my  that day.
Because I was drenched. Well, that is the one good thing. Iran and they learn its my hair because Ive been through every windstorm, sandstorm. Lets go over here, lets go this one, that one, this desert, lets go to this ocean and get out of the plane sir the wind is blowing about 70 miles an hour. I said boy, its got to be mine But weve seen it all.
Weve seen it all and I will tell you what more than anything else I have met great people. I have met great people, dedicated people and I think that the election coming up, Kevin this is the most important election of our times. This is an election were our country is going to go one way or its going to head in the direction of Venezuela and thats whats going to happen.
Thats whats going to happen. This green new deal and you know I hate to speak badly of it right now because its a little early. I spoke too early on Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren. I should have saved it but you know I dont like to go to early because I dont want it to change. I like the green new deal.
I want them to keep going. I dont want them to make -- you know the problem with this business they can make a change and eat immediately upon making the it last for about a week you look at for instance on the wall Chuck Schumer was totally in favor of a wall, right, Liz? Totally in favor. Everybody, Hillary, everybody.
They were all in favor of a wall just a few years ago. Now a wall is -- well, thats okay. They want open borders, they want people to pour in including criminals and worst criminals. They want people to pour into our country. Nobody can tell me thats good politically. Nobody can tell me. So all Americans regardless of their political beliefs or affiliations theyve got a right to speak their mind.
That includes them, that includes them but they dont have the same difficulty. They dont get shot out. I wrote a few terms, I said to my son Don whos here somewhere. Where are you, Don? Hes very good, Kimberly. Don. People like Don. Good. Thank you, Don. But road out a few -- shadow ban 100 percent you look at whats going on. You know I could go with a block in just a place sick blocking of what we want to get out.
The fact that they dont let them join, they dont, theres no doubt in my mind then I should have millions and millions -- I have millions of people, so many people I wouldnt believe it that I know we have been blocked. People come up to me and they say sir, I -- I cant follow you. They make it impossible.
These are people that are really good at what they do. They say they make it absolutely impossible and you know we cant have it. We are not going to let it happen. Josh we are not going to let it happen and you know if they did it on both sides and if it were done to the other side, to the other group and I am representing everybody, I do. I represent everybody.
I fully understand liberal, I fully understand Democrat. We want to get along, we want to make sure everybody loves each other if that is possible and maybe I really believe it is. Someday it will be. I -- guy for a file have said that the thing that is going to bring us together is great success. Now we have tremendous success, greater than we have ever had before.
I mean our country picked up trillions of dollars in value and where is China has gone down trillions of dollars, the tariffs have hurt them. I dont want to hurt them but I want them to give us a fair playing field but China has gone down trillions, we have gone up not billions, trillions. We have gone up in value and worth.
I want everybody to do well but theyve got to treat us fairly. Theyve got to treat -- everybody has to be treated fairly their side, our side. We all have to be treated fairly and you know the farmer say we just want a level playing field, sir. I love the farmers. They are patriots and China as you know targeted the farmers because they think they could get to me by hurting the people that I love and that we take care of and had no effect.
I would watch even on networks that dont exactly like me and I would watch as they interview farmers and they wouldnt have 10 or 12 people sitting around they would say we dont care, the President is right, we have been ripped off for many years, somebody has to do -- somebody had to do this. China made over the last 10 years hundreds of billions of dollars, you could say $400 billion, $500 billion a year.
That is not sustainable, that is not -- we built China and you know what they have done a great job, I dont blame them. I blame our former presidents and the leaders of our country for allowing this to go on ever since the world trade organization opened up. They allowed this to go on. They allowed hundreds of billion dollars a year to be taken out of our country and to be used to rebuild China.
So those days are over. So right now they are paying 25 percent on $250 billion, a lot of money coming in. You know we had a 3.2 GDP for the first quarter. I would say I wonder how that happened because the first quarter is the weakest quarter  almost our weakest and we had this great quarter but I dont consider 3.2 great, I consider much higher and frankly if we had lower interest rates we are forced to pay more money than other countries because we have a rate that is high, we have somebody that likes raising rates.
I think he is maybe going to change but we will find out but if we had lower we would have another 10,000 points. We just sent a record. You know Im a very greedy person. We just set a record 27,000. I said we could do 10,000 points higher. We could be 10,000 because theres no inflation. The big thing is inflation, there is no inflation but we are doing so well we are going to keep it that way so I just want to introduce because a person that I have admired for a long time, hes a great lawyer Harmeet Dhillon, and shes one of the leading First Amendment lawyers in our country and Harmeet could you come up just say a few words please?
Thank you.
And what  said is so -- so true. It is really incredible. You know I have watched some of these things that have been taped and gotten through talented people by the way but gotten through and gotten to the public where you see the hatred of our party, of our people, of our voice and you say thats the collusion, bats the collision between the Democrats and the media and social media and these platforms.
Its -- its a disgraceful thing and another thing I believe you are representing a young man who just got slogged viciously slogged I think it is a disgrace. Do you ever notice they pick on certain people? I mean he would tell you hes not the toughest person in the world physically, right? They dont go after bikers for Trump.
Did you ever notice that? They dont go after our construction workers who love us. They dont go after the police, they dont go after. You know we are the Ely. They say you ever I did better than all of them. Great education, the greatest but I guess Im not elite. They live like in the basement of their moms home.
Their arms are this big. Look, like this. But they have the black -- they have the masks on and they have sticks and they hit people. They had people in the face, in the head. This is  but did you ever notice antifa is never there when we have a bikers rally?
They are never there when the construction workers and the unions are honoring the president. There are never around. Theyre always there when you have a single guy protesting in front of a school. And as you probably know, I think all of you know, we did something very serious. I signed an executive order recently.
We are taking money away from those schools. Were going to -- You know, we give them billions and billions of dollars and they dont allow free speech. Now, we dont want anything special, but we want free speech. We were also joined by someone affected by this troubling bias very, very much. And president of Live Action and somebody Ive watched, really, with great admiration, Lila, please come up. Lila Rose.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you...
Great job. Thank you very much.
So one of the advantages of being president is when you ask for a meeting, you get it, generally. I dont know, I can think of too many I havent gotten. And you say Id like to see you in the Oval Office, or you have somebody call Oval Office. Ive been with all of these people at the highest-level one-on-one, just recently with Google and just recently with Twitter, the top, right?
And you talk to them and you swear there like your best friend. "Oh, sir, no, we are -- we believe we -- freedom of speech. Oh, yes. Absolutely." And we go out -- he says liar. Who said that? You must come from Queens. So -- so its very interesting to see that and -- and the level of, you know, you look at them, the sincerity, and I say, "Thats fantastic." And theyll leave and then Ill realize three or four weeks later, its worse.
Its actually got worse. Because I say look, I believe in technology, I believe in free markets, I believe in freedom of speech, I believe in all the things, and -- and they are super genius. Ill tell you, Im dealing with China and they admitted theres nobody like Silicon Valley. Theres nobody smart in that sense, may be not smart and other senses, Ive watched some of them speak before Congress, its not pretty.
I said I could do much better than that. But Ill tell you what, technologically, its unbelievable what they think of. Even Dan and I, when we sat with you know who at Twitter, number one -- We talked about certain things. He said, "Yeah, we could do this, this, this." I said "Thats really great. You know, this is incredible stuff." China will admit theres nobody like these brains, but they are not using that brilliance and theyre not using what we gave them fairly and they have to do that.
And we dont want to stifle anything. We certainly dont want to stifle free speech, but thats no longer free speech. See, I dont think that the mainstream media is free speech either because its so crooked. Its so dishonest. So to me, free speech is not when you see something good and then you purposely write bad.
To me, thats a very dangerous speech, and you become angry at it. But thats not free speech. Some it came to my office, I wont say who, but a very big person and I said, "Okay, you dont like the term fake news," which I think I get credit for, but Im sure if I said that I get credit, theyd say, "13 years ago someone to come up with that term fake -- " I think I get credit.
Id be very proud to take it, but I think I get credit. Now, by the way, the worst fakers of all are using fake news. I saw the other day on CNN, total fakes, I see on CNN they go, "Fake news media has reported." No, no, no, they are fake news media. Theyve turned it around. They turned it around. So Im not going to allow, and Josh and all of us, were just not going to allow it to happen like this.
Were not going to be silenced. Two months ago, we created a new White House tool to report social media bias, censorship, and discrimination. We saw you folks being taken off and we fought on all of you and many of you are back now. But many of the names I wont mention your names, some -- some of you were taken off for absolutely no reason.
I mean, in all fairness, some of you I could almost understand. I mean, some of you guys are out there. But even you should have a voice. But some of you -- no, some of you deserve -- some of you. I mean, its genius, but its bad. But they take off people that, you know, that you wouldnt believe. And we received over 16,000 responses just in a tiny little period of time talking about this subject.
Based on the feedback that we are hearing from you, Im announcing that we will ask representatives of the major social media platforms to join me at the White House over the next month, have a big meeting at a real conversation. We might want to invite some of you. I know Josh, were going to have you and some of the senators.
And its amazing how the senators, including Democrats, in all fairness, which is probably -- because I know it can turn on them also, it could turn very quickly. But they want to come, so well let you know the date, okay? And today, Im directing my administration to explore all regulatory and legislative solutions to protect free speech and the free speech rights of all Americans.
Thats you people in this room, and a lot of people out there. There are a lot of people. We hope to see transparency, more accountability, and more freedom. Thats on both sides. This is not -- I am not speaking for our side assuming were all -- I dont even know if youre on our side. You could be some of the most liberal people in the world in this audience and thats okay.
I dont care. But were talking about for everybody. Big tech must not censor the voices of the American people. To all of the social media influencers here today, a lot of -- you have a lot of power and you have a lot of strength. As you know, you have to use it wisely. Many of you do, but you have to. I want to thank you once again for being here.
Youre very special people. Youre very brilliant people in so many cases. I look around the room. I mean, I see people that really have almost found a new life of the last short period of time with his new technology. But this new technology is so powerful and so important, and it has to be used fairly.
It has to be used fairly. So thank you all for being here, its a great honor, a tremendous honor. Were going to take a few questions, I think, and then Ill head out and youre going to actually come, if you want. You can come to the great Rose Garden. You can stand in the rain with me. Were going to talk a little bit about the fact that we are not allowed to ask for whether or not somebody is a citizen on the census form, and I think we have a solution that will be very good for a lot of people.
Really good. Okay, any questions? Please. Oh, there he is. Theres my guy.
Good job. How is your new show going? Good?
I heard good.
Thank you...
Thats okay. Dont worry. Fake news. There trying to -- they are trying to divert your attention.
Theyre playing with your mind, Sebastian. That doesnt work too well with you. Lets go.
