Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Meets with Mohammad Bin Salman Al Saud of Saudi Arabia|June 29, 2019
Thank you very much. Its an honor to be with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, a friend of mine, a man who has really done things in the last five years in terms of opening up Saudi Arabia. And I think especially what youve done for women. Im seeing whats happening; its like a revolution in a very positive way.
And I want to just thank you on behalf of a lot of people, and I want to congratulate you. Youve done, really, a spectacular job. Weve had some meetings on trade and economic development and on the military, of course. And the meetings have been really terrific. As you know, Saudi Arabia is a purchaser of American products and especially of America military equipment.
We make the best in the world, by far. And we appreciate that they do. They create -- at least a million jobs are created by the purchases made by Saudi Arabia. So, were very happy to be with you. Great honor. Thank you all very much for being here. Thank you. Would you like to say something?
Right.
And one thing that youre doing maybe is almost at the top of the list, and probably is at the top of the list, is your fight on terror. For a long time, there were questions as to whether or not Saudi Arabia -- and other countries -- were sponsoring terror. And I know, when speaking to not only you but your father, the King, a tremendous effort has been put on to go the exact opposite way.
And so all of the money that was going for groups that we dont like, that are not good, youve ceased. And I appreciate that very much. Weve carefully followed it, weve studied it very carefully. And you have actually stopped. And I really appreciate that, and the world really appreciates it. So, thank you very much.
And thank you for being here.
Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody.
Well, I put a -- Ill be going to South Korea. Were going with President Moon. We were with the President in Japan for a little while, and we spoke. And all I did is put out a feeler if hed like to meet. He sent me a very beautiful birthday card. And I just -- what I did is -- and he -- I guess he got my return letter, because its in the newspaper.
Its him reading the return letter. But I just put out -- I just thought of it this morning. Well be at the area. We may go to the DMZ, or the border, as they call it. That, by the way, when you talk about a wall, when you talk about a border, thats what they call a border. Nobody goes through that border.
Just about nobody. Thats called a real border. But were going there. Were going to look at it, be -- as really a point of interest. We have some very big meetings with President Moon. We are going to be seeing our soldiers. As you know, we have 42,000 troops over in South Korea. And were going to be seeing our soldiers.
Ill be making a speech to our soldiers. Theyre incredible. Theyre really incredible. And the base, which was built by South Korea for us, is a $10 billion base. And its the latest and the greatest. Its something special. So were going to the base. Well be doing -- I mean, many of you will be coming with me, so I dont have to go through it too much, and most of you know the schedule better than anybody.
You know every inch of that schedule. I know you well. So, well be there. And I just put out a feeler, because I dont know where he is right now; he may not be in North Korea. But I said, if Chairman Kim would want to meet, Ill be at the border. Certainly, we seem to get along very well, I can tell you.
We seem to get along. Thats a good thing, not a bad thing. You know, for the stupid people that say, "Oh, he gets along" -- no, its good to get along. Its good to get along. Because, frankly, if I didnt become President, youd be right now in a war with North Korea. Youd be having a war right now with North Korea.
And, by the way, thats a certainty. Thats not like maybe. And instead of that, and instead of nuclear weapons being tested every day, and instead of ballistic missiles and all of the things, we got our prisoners back, our hostages; theyre back -- safely back. And were very happy about that. Were very happy about the remains having come back.
And theyre bringing back -- in fact, we were notified they have additional remains of our great heroes from many years ago. And, if you remember, they were brought into Hawaii. Mike Pence, Vice President, was there. And most importantly, they have not done any nuclear tests. They havent done any large-scale ballistic missile tests.
So a lot of good things have happened since the days of "were in Japan." And I can tell you every -- it seemed every week somebody was calling me to say, "Missiles are being shot over Japan." And maybe the happiest of what weve done are the Japanese people and our great Prime Minister Abe. Hes a great Prime Minster, the Prime Minister of Japan.
Hes very happy with what weve done. So, Im in no rush whatsoever. But I was in South -- I will be in South Korea. I let him know, and well see. If hes there, well see each other for two minutes. Thats all we can. But that will be fine. And some of you will be there. Thank you.
Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
Yeah, thank you very much. Yeah, well be meeting with -- Ill be meeting with President Xi at about 12 oclock today. Well be discussing Huawei, but well be discussing the trade deal. Well be discussing a lot things. I was with him last night. A lot was accomplished, actually, last night. The relationship is very good with China.
As to whether or not we can make a deal, time will tell. But the relationship itself was -- is really great. We had an amazing -- we have a very good friendship. We have a very, very good friendship, like I have with Mohammad. I mean, we have a great -- a great relationship, and thats very important, especially when you have a place like -- whether its Saudi Arabia, in all fairness, or China, or any country.
