Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Delivers a Campaign Speech in Sanford, FL|October 25, 2016
Well thank you very much. Thank you. Wow. This is a big crowd. I was just -- I was just coming in watching Fox, say, there are very few people here. Do you believe these people? Theyll do anything .Everyone of them every one of them. Ill tell you what, the media folks is no good. Theyre no good. Very dishonest.
In 14 days, were going to win the state of Florida. Were going to win back the White House. We are going to win Florida. And by the way, the lines at the voting booths are record. And I noticed that a lot of the people online, you see the pictures. Theyre wearing the red hat, the white hat, this hat, theyre wearing all -- theyre wearing buttons all over the place.
I think those are people that are inclined to vote for us. Do you agree? So this was supposed to be a rally in that hangar. And after the first hour, they realized that wasnt going to work too well. ` Thats fantastic. Thank you everybody. Look at that. Were going to have a big victory. The lines are record setting, which I knew theyd be, and a lot of people are being very surprised.
Its very, very surprising. Were getting a big vote. So its going to be a little early to tell you what those numbers are. But its a big, big vote in the state of Florida. Were leading Iowa, where leading Ohio, were doing great in North Carolina. Pennsylvania, were going to a lot. I think were going to do great there.
They put the miners out of work. Were putting the miners back to work. I think were going to do great there. 75% of the American people think our country is on the wrong track. Every poll says it. We are going to fix it and we are going to get our country back on the right track very, very quickly. Together were going to deliver real change that once again puts America first.
That begins with immediately repealing and replacing the disaster known as Obamacare. You saw what happened yesterday? The rates are going through the sky. We all knew that. I knew it before it was passed. Ive been saying this for a long time. My first day in office Im going to ask Congress to put a bill on my desk getting rid of this disastrous law and replacing it with reforms that expand choice, freedom, affordability.
Youre going to have such great health care at a tiny fraction of the cost and its going to be so easy. Its just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double digit hike. Now they said 25%, forget 20, youll take 25%. Its going to be 60, 70, 80, 90%. In the great state of Arizona, its over 100%. It is crazy.
One in five Americans trapped in Obamacare will only have a single insurer to negotiate with in your state. Congratulations. Lots of fun. Youre going to have to brush up on your negotiation ability believe me. Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half.
And then he was forced to take it back the following day because that night he suffered greatly. He suffered because Hillary Clinton wants to double up and triple up on Obamacare. The numbers will go through the roof. Your taxes will double and triple. And in the end, its not affordable you cant do it. The Democratic governor of Minnesota said the Affordable Act, remember this, the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable.
He doesnt know what to do. But I -- I said this before it was passed. It couldnt have worked in a million years. Insurers are leaving, companies are fleeing. And by the way, is putting your companies out of business. Its putting your small businesses out of business. And Hillary Clinton, heres another thing we can say, Im going to repeal it and replace it. Shes going to expand it and its going to get more and more expensive.
And its no good anyway because the deductibles are so high. I mean unless you have a really long term, serious problem. At the highest level youre never going to be able to use it folks. Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare and make it even worse. She wants to put the government totally in charge of your health care.
Despite the fact its no good. Itll be much more expensive than even today. Repealing Obamacare and stopping Hillarys health care takeover is one of the single most important reasons that we must win on November 8. What is a big crowd by the way. A lot of people. A lot of people. Thank you. You know, it is funny because you know you listen to this phony media.
I get a call an hour ago and they say, "Sir, we have a problem." I say, "Oh, here we go. What is it?" They said this and I laugh. But they said, "The people dont fit into the hangar." I said, "But thats a good problem isnt it?" Change has to come from outside our corrupt system. The fact that the Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop our campaign which is actually a movement.
This is a movement folks. And this is the last time were going to have a chance. Four years its over. Its over. In four years, you dont have a chance. All these characters they want to run in four years. They can forget it. Theyre wasting their time. You dont have even a little bit of a chance. This is it. And were really close.
Were going to win Florida, by the way -- No, no. These guys wont tell you that because they dont want to hear about it. But when they interview. When they -- these are the most corrupt people, when they interview, the people standing on the line and they say, "Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump." they say, "All right lets get out of here.
This is bad. This is bad news." These are the most dishonest, almost as dishonest as crooked Hillary. I love those pink signs. Women for Trump. I loved the signs behind me. Blacks for Trump. I like those signs, Blacks for Trump. You watch, you watch. Those signs are great. Thank you. Going to be a lot of -- theres gonna be a lot of Brexit happening in about two weeks.
Lot of Brexit. Remember that everybody went to bed. They said, "Oh gee, I think its not going to." and I said it was going to happen and they criticized me, "Can you believe this guy. Can you believe this guy." Just like rooked Hillary, she had a rally. You know her rallies last for about 15 minutes and there are very few people.
But she talked about how we want peace at our rallies and this and that. She hired people, thugs to go into my rallies. Fifteen hundred people right? Fifteen hundred people. Listen to this, $1500 and an iPhone, go in the rally and beat people up. Go into the rally and beat people up. And you remember in Pennsylvania and different places.
In Chicago, remember that one, where they were fighting. They found out our people are not so easy to beat up. Thats for sure. But you remember? Remember they went in and there was a policeman with blood pouring down his face. There was another one with a badly gash. This was all thugs put in there and then Im listening to her talk about peace at our rallies.
We want peace. This is one of the great phonies of all time and she shouldnt be allowed to run for president with what shes done Ill tell you right now. The fact that the Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop this movement is only more proof that our campaign represents the kind of change that only arrives once in a lifetime.
This is once in a lifetime. Im telling you I opened the door, I looked out the window, I said, "Wow." It so different from what they report. These people up here, they are the worst. And you know what its called. By the way, you know what its called dont you? Its called Voter suppression. Because people give up. People give up. And were going to win Florida and were going to win Iowa and were going to win Ohio right?
And I think were going to win Pennsylvania. And were going to win North Carolina. Were going to have a lot of victories. Just keep it going, folks. Were fighting a crooked establishment and just about the biggest part of the crooked establishment are these people right back there with a phony cameras.
Theyre a bunch of phony lowlifes. And you remember Obama last week? The campaigning President. He doesnt get you jobs. He gives you a lousy health care that youre going to pay so much for, youre not going to be able to afford it. You cant afford it now. He cant beat ISIS. Hes a lousy president. And you remember when I said, that some of the voting is rigged.
OK. Everybody knows. Check out Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis. And he said, "This is a threat to our system. This is terrible. This is a threat." OK. I figured, "Gee, whiz. Wow, thats pretty bad." Except last night on television, last night Im watching Obama from eight years ago. And hes basically saying that the whole thing is fixed.
Before he won his first race, he was talking about voting. And he said, "Remember, I come from Chicago you know. I mean, you know, they do." Give me a break. This guy is such a phony guy. What a phony. What a phony group. Take a look, you got to look at it. You got to look at it. A clip last night -- In fact, it was on Sean Hannity.
You gotta look at it. And you see that I said, "I dont believe that." He would have said that after knowing he made these said. But basically he said, "Its rigged." And he said, "I know because I come from Chicago." Give me a break, what a phony guy. Real change begins with ridding Washington of corruption of which is of plenty, plenty going around.
And believe me, folks. Believe me, folks. Ive been senator for a long time. This system, the whole system is rigged. The whole system is rigged. Go back to Obamacare for a second. Remember Obama? You can keep your plan, you can keep your doctor. He said it 28 different times. Keep the plan, keep the doctor.
Keep your plan, keep your doctor. He lied. Remember, he had Jonathan Gruber of MIT. When my uncle was a professor for thirty five years. But he had Jonathan Gruber from MIT and he was the architect of the plan. And remember, he called the American people stupid. Stupid for going along with Obamacare. Then he tried to take it back.
He couldnt take it back. It was a disaster. The problem is, folks, they all have a memory, including us, two weeks and we forget. But I dont forget. And you know what? I bring it up. Jonathan Gruber said, the American people are essentially stupid. For approving and allowing Obamacare to happen. And you know what?
Weve got to show them on November 8th that were not stupid, were not stupid. And heres another beauty, a breaking news story today provides one of the most shocking revelations to date. As you may remember, President Obama claimed to have no knowledge whatsoever of Clintons, Hillary Clintons illegal email server.
I have no knowledge of it, I dont know. This guy, hes as bad as she is. And hes gotta stop campaigning and bring us some jobs. OK. That jeopardized national security, her e-mail server. But newly public e-mails, WikiLeaks, prove otherwise. A Clinton spokesman, Josh Waring, sent an email saying, quote, "Looks like the president just said, he found out Hillary Clinton was using a personal e-mail when he saw it on the news." Oh, thats nice.
But Cheryl Mills, Clintons chief of staff, the State Department replied, quote, "Listen to this. We need to clean this up. He has the e-mails from her. They do not say state dot gov." They dont say it. In other words, Mills was saying Obama, he had to know that Hillary was using an illegal server but he claimed otherwise.
So that means, Obama is now into the act. And now, I understand that despite his hatred of the Clintons -- because I know one thing, Bill hates him. But despite his hatred, now I understand, why he pushed her. Because he didnt want to get caught up in the big lie. Hes caught up now, folks. We have to investigate the investigation.
This investigation. So listen to this, crooked Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 e-mails, lied to Congress under oath. Made 13 iPhones disappear, some with a hammer. Then told the FBI, she couldnt remember 39 times. Bad memory. Incredible. But we have also just learned, that one of the closest people to Hillary Clinton, with long standing ties to her and her husband, the closest.
The closest person I can tell you that, gave more. Listen to this, just happened yesterday. Gave more than $675,000 to the campaign of the wife of a top FBI official. Who oversaw the investigation into Mrs. Clintons illegal e-mail server. Another words.  Another words. Another words. The man who is in charge of the investigation of Hillary Clinton accepted essentially from Hillary Clinton, $675,000 that went to his wife.
Never happened before. Never happened, not in this countrys history. This is a disgrace and she shouldnt be allowed to run for president. She shouldnt be allowed. Shes a crook. Remember this. Remember this. Just remember this. So important, Donna Brazile, head of DNC, got the answers to a debate and the questions to a debate.
So she has the questions, she gave them to crooked Hillary. And I dont know, if you saw Donna Brazile the other night on television. What a -- What a mess. That was the way she -- she didnt know what to do. "Well, how did you get him?" "Well, ah, they were sent by Russia, Russia." You know, theyre always using Russia like I have some -- I have nothing to do with Russia.
That was sent by Russia and Donald Trump, you know. These people -- and yet they have more because Hillary Clinton gave them 20% of our uranium. Gave Russia for a big payment. And her man has to do with , the whole thing. Theyre a bunch of crooks. Im telling you, our country, is in such trouble.
So Donna Brazile has the questions. She gives him to crooked Hillary. OK. Now heres what Id like, wouldnt it be great if crooked Hillary -- You know its funny. I wonder if she had the questions the other night to our debate because everybody tells me I killed her in that debate. Which I think I did. Which I think I did.
So Donna Brazile gives her all of the questions. And what happens? Hillary should turn them in of course. Right? Listen, I cant do this. Its a -- she didnt turn them in, she used them. And we found out through WikiLeaks that this happened. And nobody goes after her. Can you imagine, if I got the answers or the questions to a debate?
It would be the electric chair. Right? No, no. It would be the biggest story in the world. And theyre not doing anything with Donna Brazile and theyre not doing anything with crooked Hillary Clinton. She got the answers to a debate. She got the questions to a debate. And she didnt turn herself in. Meaning, Im sorry, Im not supposed to have this.
By the way, what a great act that would have been if she did it. We would have all been shocked if she did it. But wouldnt that have been nice. The criminal conduct of Hillary Clinton threatens the foundations of democracy. I mean that. But were going to turn it around folks. I proposed a contract with the American voter that will give the government back to the people.
And -- and just so you understand it. You know this, I didnt need this. I didnt need this but I was doing very well on the other side. I was, you know, definitely doing well. I didnt need this but Ill tell you, I love our country. I had to do it. I see where our country is going and its not good.
Its really bad. My contract begins with a plan to end the rampant government corruption and to put the special interests out of business. Its all about special interests. I want everyone in Washington to hear and to heed the words Im about to say. If we win, on November 8th, we are going to Washington D.C. and we, together, are going to drain the swamp.
Under my contract with the American voter. We are proposing a series of ethics reforms on day one to end government corruption. They include, a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress. Important. A lifetime ban on government officials lobbying for a foreign government.
Do you believe this? They get out, they lobby for it. They make a fortune. A total ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections. Thank you very much. We dont need your money. Under my contract, Im also going to take a series of actions on day one to protect American workers. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.
They are taking our companies, they are taking our jobs. And our politicians, many of whom are stupid and many of whom are corrupt are allowing it to happen. Were not going to allow it any longer. Our nation, has lost one third of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. A deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Hillary Clinton.
And by the way, the single worst trade deal ever made in history, anywhere. Listen to this. Hard to believe. Ive told you before, I thought this was a typographical error. Weve lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, WTO. Another Bill and Hillary backed disaster but theyve been nicely paid.
Look at all the money they have pouring in. Two hundred and fifty million dollars and theyve been in government, its good government job. My contract includes the following: We will renegotiate NAFTA or withdraw from the deal to get a much better one for our workers and our companies. Its a one way street.
You know what I call it? Its a one way highway right into Mexico. They get our jobs, they get our money, they get our plants and factories. You know, we get drugs and unemployment. Thats what we get. We get nothing. Its a defective agreement too, totally defective. We will withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, another beauty.
The deal Hillary Clinton called the gold standard and then during the debate she lied. She said, "I never said that." Unfortunately, at the next debate they announce, she did say it. Then she also said she never was secretary of state when they talked about the red line and they said, "I wasnt Secretary of State then." Right Remember?
I wasnt say. She lied to us. Even this so-called fact checkers, who are really crooked as hell themselves, by the way. These fact checkers, theyll check facts with me and Im like, like 99% right. And theyll say, "And therefore, he lied." So Ive -- Ive gone through them, I said, "Oh, good. Finally." They said, "And therefore, he lied." Boy, these people are bad.
What a group of people we have. What a group of dishonest scum we have. Im telling you. Hillarys Wall Street donors want it and shed approve it. If she ever got the chance she will approve TPP so fast and she intends to. Tim Kaine has even left the door open to passing TPP by another name. Lets change the name.
And by the way, folks, were going to win. But regardless, dont let it happen. Its too complicated. You do one deal with another one, one, one. Make individual deals with individual nations, deal with the ones we want to deal with. You got to see what this thing looks like, a piece of Swiss cheese. And if they default, you send them a letter of default.
And by the time that 30 day notice ends, youll have a new deal thats even better. This deal is too complicated. Its almost 6000 pages long. And heres the thing, all of these other countries theyve read every single word, every comma, every period, every paragraph. Ill bet, we have nobody even reads these things.
OK. And youre talking about bigger than running big companies. These are bigger deals. You can take a modest sized trade deal. Its bigger than these big companies. And we have people that are political hacks negotiate and not anymore, we have the greatest. Im endorsed by some of the greatest business people in the world.
Were going to use our great business people to make these deals. We will lift the restrictions on the production of American energy which is getting clobbered with the EPA. And by the way, and with the restrictions including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal. Were putting our miners back to work.
Hillary wants to shut down American energy and put the miners out of work. She said it. We want the mines and the miners out of work. Thats nice. Horrible. Were going to put the miners, the steel steelworkers and so many of our other workers that are being clobbered by the stupidity of our governments leadership.
Were going to put them back to work. And that includes the steelworkers. Its going to happen fast too. It doesnt take a long time, folks. Its gonna go fast. Additionally, on the first day I will take the following actions to restore the rule of law. These include, I will cancel every illegal Obamacare executive order.
Will cancel all federal funding too, sanctuary cities out. We will suspend immigration from regions comprised of radical Islamic terrorists. Including the suspension of the Syrian refugee program which is taking in thousands and thousands of people that we have no idea where they come from. No idea who they are and crooked Hillary Clinton wants to have that increased by 550% over and above the crazy Obama numbers.
OK.  Tell you what? You vote for her. Youre crazy. OK. Ill tell you. She is the worst. Next, Ill work with Congress to introduce a series of legislative reforms and well fight for their passage in the first 100 days of my administration. And this legislation quickly includes Middle Class Tax Relief and Simplification Act.
So essentially, a middle class family with two children will get about a 35% tax reduction. Isnt that nice? Its about time. The middle class in our country has been devastated. And by the way, crooked Hillary wants to raise your taxes up to the sky. She wants to raise with the highest tax nation in the world.
She wants to raise your taxes right up to the sky. And the offshoring Act establishes tariffs to companies from laying off their workers and relocating to other countries, which is a disaster for us. We have companies, all of them, I could name 100 if you have all day. I could name -- I could name a thousand.
They close, they moved to Mexico or some other place. They make their product, they sell it to us. We end up with unemployment all over. We end up with no taxes, we end up with closed plants. And they make a fortune in the other countries. So heres the story folks and I say it, whether its cars, air conditioners.
They want to close up and put our people out of work. Go someplace else, build a new plant. And you know, the friend of mine has said, all that hes never seen, in the eighth wonder of the world. He said, the plants and factories that hes building in Mexico, "Donald, hes the biggest." Is the eighth wonder of the world.
I said, "What about the United States?" He goes, "Not so much. Nothing." Its so sad, its so sad. So they want to build something and they want to have their new plant and they want to have non U.S. workers. Thats fine. Everythings fine. But theyre going to pay a 35% tax every time that air conditioner car comes across the border.
And you know what? Nobody is going to move. Heres the story folks. A couple of politicians said, "Ive never thought of that. Cant think of it." Theyve been working on this thing for 10 years, they never thought. So either theyre taken care of or theyre stupid. Right? Well both. So heres whats gonna happen though, nobody is gonna move.
And if they do move, thats OK too. Because were gonna make a fortune. OK? So its not the worst thing in the world. American Infrastructure Act, 1 trillion in public private infrastructure investment. This includes help for projects like expanding the Orlando Sanford International Airport. You like that idea?
Why not? So theyve been looking to do it for a long time. And illegal immigration, I have to tell you. Our infrastructure folks is a mess were like a Third World country. We have an infrastructure thats so bad our roads, our highways, our schools, our tunnels, our bridges. Look at our bridges, half of them have reports that theyre in serious danger.
We will build the wall and we will impose tough mandatory minimum prison -- remember this, tough mandatory minimum prison sentences for deported illegal immigrants who tried to re-enter the country. They keep coming back and back and back. And if they know they go away for five years if we catch them, theyre not coming back, folks.
How simple is it. How simple is it. Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. In January of last year, Grit -- and you probably heard this story, everybodys heard this story. Grant run it back. Twenty one years old a beautiful, beautiful young person was working at a convenience store in Mesa Arizona.
When he was shot in the face, pointblank by an illegal immigrant for no reason. The killer was out on bond. He was roaming free despite many previous arrests and violence. And the word from other people that do him, please do not let him go free. Shot this young man right in the face. In another incident 25 year old Spencer Golvach was sitting in his car at a stoplight after dropping off his girlfriend.
An illegal immigrant in a pickup truck pulled up beside Spencer and without saying anything. And for no reason, took out a gun, pointed it at his head and pulled the trigger killing him instantly. The killer had been deported four times. We werent supposed to take him back. We took him back. He had a massive lengthy criminal record.
And people said, "Please dont take this guy back." Dead. By the way, hundreds of stories hundreds. Ive spent a lot of time with Spencers mom Julie a member of The Remembrance Project, one of the great groups of people. Theyre devastated. Theyre devastated. Sixty year old Margaret Kostelnik was shot to death by an illegal immigrant last July in Ohio.
Earlier that day, her killer attempted to rape a 14 year old girl. Shot a third woman in the arm while he was with her children and did massive other damage to other people. Police encountered the man more than three weeks before the crime spree. But federal authorities refused to take him into custody. Even though, they knew he was very dangerous.
They didnt want to get involved. So you have carnage. This crime wave ends when Donald Trump becomes president. Believe me. Hillary Clinton on the other hand, is totally for open borders -- there goes your country. Which would mean the destruction of our country. It would really mean that.
Youve got to have borders. If you dont have borders, we dont have a country. She also wants to expand illegal executive amnesty which would be really shred. It would shred our Constitution. Restoring National Security Act which will eliminate the Obama Clinton defense sequester. Allow us to rebuild our military and gives veterans, how many veterans?
The right to seek private medical care when they cant get proper service. The veterans are waiting in line for six, seven, eight days. They cant even get to see a doctor. Twenty two suicides a day from our veterans. You believe that number? Twenty two a day. Under my plan, not only will we modernize our Navys cruises but well also invest in the technologies of the future.
Being developed right here in central Florida. My plan also includes major investments in space exploration, also right here. You know, we call this place. Over the last eight years, the Obama Clinton administration has undermined our space program tremendously. That will change so many good things come out of it including great jobs.
And it will change very quickly under a Trump administration. And it will change before its too late. You ever see whats going on with space with Russia and different places. And us? Were like -- We like watching. Isnt that nice. So much is learned from that too. As a cornerstone of my policy, we will substantially expand public private partnerships to maximize the amount of investment and funding that is available for space exploration and development.
This means launching and operating major space assets right here that employ thousands and spare innovation and fuel economic growth. I will free NASA from the restriction of serving primarily as a logistics agency for low earth orbit activity. Big deal. Instead, we will refocus its mission on space exploration.
Under a Trump administration, Florida and America will lead the way into the stars. With a victory in November, everything will change. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days. In closing, were going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan and actually even better. Were going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation theyre choking our businesses . Were going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core and bring our education look.
Were going to support our great men and women of law enforcement. We will save our Second Amendment which is totally under siege. And appoint justices to the Supreme Court of the United States who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. Republicans have to finally get smart and come together.
This is our last chance. This is bigger than me or any of us. Its about our country. This is about ending Obamacare. This is about the Supreme Court. This is about rebuilding our military and taking care of our vets, strengthening our borders and keeping our companies and jobs from leaving our beloved country.
This is about restoring the rule of law saving our Constitution and keeping radical Islamic terrorists. The hell out of our country. I invite all Americans, Republicans, Democrats, independents, first time voters, to join this incredible movement. A movement the likes of which has never been witnessed in this country before.
Never. Never. Never been anything like this. Lets not blow it, folks, November 8th. Get out sooner if you can. Its a movement powered by our love for America and our love for our fellow citizens. Were in a divided country. Were going to bring everybody together not just the people here. Were going to bring everybody together.
Were going to fix our inner cities. Ill tell you what? Our inner cities are so, so bad right now. The danger, the crime, the lack of education, no jobs. African-Americans are living in hell, in our -- in -- in the inner cities. I mean, theyre living -- theyre living in hell. You walk to the store for a loaf of bread.
You get shot. Were going to fix our inner cities. Were going to fix. Remember this. Remember this. Just remember this, so important. For years, the Democrats have controlled the inner city. Some up to 100 years, some over 100 years. Unbroken. I say to the African-American community and to the Hispanic community, "What the hell do you have to lose?
I will fix it." We will make them good. Will make them safe. Well bring back jobs. Well create good, good schools and education. I will fix it. We will fix our inner cities. Hillary Clinton has been lying about the inner cities for years. Shes not going to do anything. Frankly, you want to know the truth?
She doesnt have the energy to do anything. She doesnt have the energy. Im going to fight for every citizen of every background from every stretch of this nation. Im going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people not the donors and not the special interest.
Im going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag. Once again, we will have a government. Right? Once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people.
Of, by and for the people. Folks, folks, we want to end Obamacare. We want to go to a plan thats so much better and so much less expensive. Right? We want to have borders and we want people to come into our country. We welcome people but they have to come in through a legal process. So were going to have a wall but its going to have a big beautiful door.
And people are going to come into our country but theyre going to come in illegally. And by the way, just in case theres any question. Yes, Mexico will pay for the wall. 100%. Think about when you get in the voting booth, The United States Supreme Court. Just think about it because Ill tell you what?
You put the wrong justices on the Supreme Court and this country will never ever be the same. It will never be what you had hoped it would be. So just think about the United States Supreme Court. And were going to bring so importantly, I got into this because of the border and the terror. But because of the border and because of trade.
And the trade is so easy for me, its so obvious whats happening when our companies are flocking out. Were going to fix our trade. Were going to bring jobs back to our country including this area, right here. Which has been devastated. Together, if we win on November 8th. And I really believe we will, we better.
