Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump|Des Moines, Iowa
What great people, great people.
Im here today for one main reason -- to say thank you to the great, great people of Iowa.
You went out and pounded, and I mean pounded the pavement. You organized your fellow citizens and propelled us to victories at a grassroots and every other level. We have a movement the likes of which this world has never seen before -- never seen before.
I also want to give a very special thanks to our veterans -- a lot of veterans in this room.
Thank you, thank you. Service members, military families, unbelievable people.
Yesterday was the 75th anniversary of Pearl Harbor and a reminder of the countless Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice for this and our country.
Americas men and women in uniform are the finest and bravest the world has ever known.
And by the way folks, we are going to be building up our military.
It will no longer be a depleted military, I promise.
So to all serving in our military, and to all veterans who wore the uniform before, I say to you now in behalf of a very, very grateful nation, thank you, thank you, thank you.
Were in your debt, and we will never ever let you down -- never. Well honor your service, your sacrifice. And that really begins with defending and respecting our American flag.
I think youll be liking some of the things well be putting forward in the not-too-distant future. Do you know what I mean, yes? Do you know what I mean?
When Pearl Harbor was attacked, one man who immediately enlisted to defend his country was John Glenn. For the next seven decades, he devoted his life to serving the American people, which he did from the cockpit of his bullet-riddled fighter jet -- tough times -- in the weightless silence of his Mercury space...
Oh, thats OK, thats OK. We have to respect John Glenn. Thats all right.
I think they are actually on our side, they just dont know it yet.
They will be soon.
But John was also in the weightless silence of his Mercury spacecraft and later in the halls of the U.S. Capitol. Our nation mourns the passing of one of our great heroes.
He was a giant among men and a true American legend who inspired generations of explorers and dreamers, and we will honor his legacy by continuing to push new frontiers in science, technology, and space.
In filling my Cabinet, I am looking for people who fully understand the meaning of service and who are committed to advancing the common good. One such man, who, by the way, our country has fallen in love with is General James Mad Dog" Mattis. ""n filling my Cabinet
He doesnt lose. He doesnt lose. We were together last night. Hes a great guy. A generals general they call them.
Earlier this week, I formally announced my plans to nominate him as your new Secretary of Defense.
I believe were in the process of putting together one of the great Cabinets that has ever been assembled in the history of our nation. Do you like it so far everybody?
I also want to take this opportunity to thank your great senators, Chuck Grassley, a great guy, really great guy...
... and a woman Ive gotten to know very well, a tremendous woman, phenomenal person. Thats right, Joni Ernst. Theyre going to be tremendous partners in the Senate, and theyre right now in Washington, D.C. working very hard on something thats very interesting, but they are tremendous -- two tremendous people. They never wavered.
You know, we had some people they would waiver, right, waiver not as long as they came back sometime prior to the vote. Theyre all right, but we dont like people that waiver, right?
Those two didnt waiver.
Ill tell you who else did waiver. Your governor did not waiver. I want to tell you that.
He didnt waiver, not even a little bit.
And soon Im going to invite onto the stage one of the newest additions to our administration, a man you know well, one of the most important relationships we must improve, and we have to improve is our relationship with China.
The nation of China is responsible for almost half of Americas trade deficit. China is not a market economy. They get a lot of help, and thats why we designate them as being a nonmarket economy -- big thing. They havent played by the rules, and they know its time that theyre going to start. Theyre going to start. They got to, honestly.
Were all in this thing together, folks. We got to play by the rules, folks.
You have the massive theft of intellectual property, putting unfair taxes on our companies, not helping with the menace on North Korea like they should and the at-will and massive devaluation of their currency and product dumping. Other than that, theyve been wonderful, right?
But I have to tell you, the man that is going to be coming up here very soon, every single time I have spoken as I am going onto the stage hed said, Please
Hes -- if it wasnt for him, I probably wouldnt be president- elect. But he always would say, Mr. Trump -- Donald
OK. I said, Why?" Because I have so many friends there
So when it came to thinking about the ambassador to China, right? I started saying, No
But he is not looking to live like a king. His beautiful wife came to my office the other day. They are looking to work on that relationship because he knows the people and the leaders in China for so many years. he knew your current leader years ago, and he said he will be the ultimate leader when he was just a young guy. You have a very special man.
And I just I want to tell you officially, the man I have chosen as our ambassador to China is the man that knows China and likes China -- better to like China if youre going to be over there. Do we agree?
And knows how to deliver results, and he will deliver results just like he has been delivering results for 23 years to the great farmers and for the people of Iowa.
Hes been on six trade missions to China and is highly respected by all of the Chinese officials. Hes also a native of Iowa, Americas longest-serving governor in the history of our country, 23 years.
Think of that. In the history, you dont know what it is. To be a governor for four years is tough -- 23 years -- and has done an incredible job.
Hes also become a great friend of mine. I am now honored to welcome to the stage our next ambassador to China, your governor, and I can truly say your great governor, Terry Branstad. Come up, Terry.
This is a big room.
Wow, President-elect Trump.
Hello, Iowans.
It has been a great honor and privilege to serve the people of this state, and thanks our great new President whos going to make America great again, I am very proud to serve America in this very important role. Thank you very much.
He is going to do so great. With Terry on our side, I know we will succeed in bringing our jobs back. And I also know that China whos been so tough and so competitive, and, frankly, dealing with people that didnt get it. But Ill tell you what, were going to have mutual respect. Were going to have mutual respect, and china is going to benefit and were going to benefit. And Terry is going to lead the way, so I just want to congratulate him.
But to accomplish our goals, we must reject the failed approaches of the past. Government must stop listening to the special interests, and start delivering for the national interests.
Its time to deliver for you, the American people just like Iowa delivered for me. Boy, did you deliver.
Boy, did you deliver.
You know, just to go into this for a second, so we won almost every single county in the state. We won by over 10 points. We won one county that wasnt won since Dwight D. Eisenhower. Anybody know the name of that county?

Correct. And we had a great night. And Iowa was announced very early, and so was Ohio. And we won Ohio by almost nine points.
And we were expected to win Ohio by two points or three, so we won by nine. That made the other side a little bit nervous.
And then my friends, right in this room got announced, right? We won by 10 points.
And then when they looked at the map of Iowa and they saw almost every single county, and it was incredible. And the other side will say, well, maybe those two are flukes.
And then we won Florida, and we won South Carolina.
We won North Carolina, and we won Pennsylvania. And we won Michigan, and we won Wisconsin, and we won Georgia and Texas, and Utah.
Remember Utah? Remember Utah? Where they said this guy, this unknown person that he is doing so well. Remember? He -- they said, Utah is in play."""emember Utah? Rem"
Now, nobody -- no Republicans ever lost Utah. And I went to my people. I said, We got problems. Utah is in play." And theres a guy that -- I mean
So this guy supposedly was in second place. And they said Texas, right? They said, Texas
So now, the polls open and they go, Texas goes to Trump. Georgia goes to Trump
I won them in like landslides. Im saying, Whats been going on
You know, the expression the use is theyre in play
That was a big one. Thats a big one. That was a big one.
And the numbers were so big that, you know, for the rest of the night, the other side is going around and said, Thats a big number. Thats a lot more than we were supposed to lose by."""nd the numbers were so big that
So I love you, folks. I really. This is sort of a -- you know, this is a thank you, and its a thank you, Iowa, and its a thank you, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, North Carolina, and Florida, and a lot of the states that were so, so crucial. And we won every one -- and Nebraska, a guy from Nebraska.
Actually, we won Nebraska, too, right? We won -- Nebraska goes twice. We won it twice. And we had a lot of people in Nebraska, a lot of good, wealthy people fighting us, right? That didnt work.
But those wealthy people arent so unhappy now because the stock market has gone up so much because of us...
... but those wealthy people just got wealthier, right?
No, they had a lot of buses. They were bussing people from all over the place, and we still won both of them.
The American worker built this country, and now it is time for American workers to have a government that, for the first time in decades answers to them. Were going to answer to them.
My plan begins with bold structural reform to create millions of really good paying jobs -- jobs...
... whether its agriculture, medicine or military technology, we want the next generation of innovation and production to happen right here in America and right here in Iowa. Youre going to be big beneficiaries...
... big beneficiaries.
First on taxes, were going to undertake one of the great tax reforms and simplifications in American history. Its going to be simpler. Too much work, too complicated. And the center of the plan is massive tax relief for the American middle class has been forgotten...
... forgotten. Boy, did they come out and vote, huh? They came out and vote.
You know, I think both parties, to a certain extent, but especially the other side, they forgot about those people. Thats why I call them the forgotten men and the forgotten women." Theyre not forgotten anymore
Were also going to lower our business tax rate from 35 percent all the way down to 15 percent. Thats going to .
Were going to prime the pump. Were going to prime the pump. We got to get the jobs. We got 96 million people out there. We got to get them going, and they want to work. They gave up looking for jobs. Theyre going to have their choice of jobs.
Now, you watch. Theyre going to have their choice.
Wouldnt it be nice if you went around and you go home to your wife or your husband, and you say, Harry or Sally..." ""ouldnt it be nice if you wen"
... I dont know which one to take. I got so many options. Ive got so many options. Please
On regulations, were going to eliminate every single wasteful regulation that hurts our farmers, our workers...
... and our small businesses. And you saw today, Scott Pruitt, whos a tremendous guy, who has been met with tremendous applause from the business community. Were going to protect the family farm, and we are going to end the EPA intrusion into your lives.
On energy, we will cancel the job killing restrictions on the production of American energy, and that means lower energy prices for farmers, households and small businesses in Iowa and, frankly, all over the United States.
We will also pursue an agenda of conservation, protecting our beautiful natural resources for future Americans, your family, your children and lots of other people. And were going to ensure clean air and clean water for all of our people.
Regulations, by the way, will be cut down to a fraction of what they are now. And believe it or not, environmentally, youll be protected better and will have jobs, OK, will have jobs.
On infrastructure, I am going to ask Congress to pass legislation that produces $1 trillion of new investment in Americas crumbling infrastructure, and it is indeed crumbling. That includes major new projects for both our rural communities and our inner cities, which have also been forgotten.
And we will put our people, not people from other lands, our people back to work in the process. OK?
It is time to help Americans get off the welfare and get back into the labor market, and theyre going to want to do it, theyre going to want to do it.
Rebuilding this country with American hands, by American workers. Were going to do it. Were going to have people...
... that havent worked for years. Theyre going to love -- OK, theyre going to love it. Theyre going to be incentivized.
My administration will follow two simple rules -- buy American and hire American.
Remember, years ago, we used to proudly display Made in the USA." You go get a car
Any of the manufacturers -- and were doing a lot of -- a lot of talking to a lot of companies, and were thinking about leaving. And Ill tell you, I dont think theyre going to be leaving so fast anymore. Theyre not going to be leaving so fast anymore...
... because we love our companies and we love it when they are employing thousands of people, but we dont love our companies when they leave and go to another country and think they can make their product and sell it back into our country like were a bunch of fools, like they have been getting away with for the last 35 year -- not going to be.
No, there are going to be consequences. When they want to leave, I will wish them well. I always say enjoy your new plant, enjoy the very hot weather. But if you think youre going to be coming through what will soon become a very, very strong border.
No, going to happen so easy.
Were not going to be the stupid people anymore, folks. Were not going to be the stupid people...
... .because from now on its going to be America first, going to be America first -- very simple.
You know, some of the deals made, and Ive been studying them, actually I like reading deals. Do you believe this? I do not know what that is. But I have been setting some of these deals. Theyre horrible. Theyre inconceivable, but were going to have some great news for you in the very near future.
On trade, our trade deficit now nearly $800 billion a year. Think of that. We trade. And who is this that we want to trade? I want to trade, Im a free trader, but it has to make sense. You know when a trade is going to lose $800 billion a year. Its a chronic drag on growth, and a total destroyer of jobs and the wealth of our country, so we dont want that anymore.
And, by the way, some of the people I put on to negotiate - youve been noticing -- are some of the most successful people in the world. One newspaper criticized me, why cant they have people of modest means? Because I want people who made a fortune because now theyre negotiating with you, OK?
Its no different than a great baseball player or a great golfer, I mean, we want the people that are going to be bring -- theyre so proud to do it. These people have given up fortunes of income in order to make a dollar a year, and they are so proud to do it. And you watch, you watch whats going to happen. Its going to have happen fast, too, going to happen fast.
It will happen very fast. And we actually have -- weve been given tremendous reviews on the people that we have gotten. Thats why we will renegotiate our trade deals, stop the product dumping, the currency manipulation, which is totally out of control, which, by the way, makes it impossible for our companies to compete and defend every last American job, but were going to do it. Its going to be so -- its going to be fun.
I actually love calling these companies. I say, give me a list of 10 companies that are leaving. And I actually love calling these companies in saying, hi, and I get the president of the company. And I say, Hi
Please. And weve had great success. Youll be seeing a lot more success.
On the military, we will show the whole world that America is strong again. Were going to have a very strong military.
I mean, theres rarely been a time when we needed a strong military and a smart military more than we have now. Right? Theres rarely been a time.
We will rebuild our badly depleted military and ensure that our servicemembers have the equipment, training, technology and resources they need to get the job done...
... to get the job done.
Now, I have to say this. Hopefully, we will never have to use the power that were building. We dont want to use it. We believe in peace through strength. We dont want to use it, but its got to be there. Its going to be there.
At the same time, we will ensure our veterans have the best medical care in the world, including the best health care for our female veterans who have also been the forgotten people.
There are a lot of forgotten people in this country, a lot of forgotten people. Well be very strongly focused on female veterans who have really had a tougher than almost anybody.
On childcare...

Thank you. Thats very nice.
On childcare, I am asking Congress to pass legislation to make safe and affordable childcare accessible to all, while fighting to get higher pay for women -- women in the workforce -- thats what has to happen -- and ensuring women on small businesses can access the capital they need. Were going to be working on plans for companies, not only women, but for companies to access the capital from banks.
Right now, there is no capital. You cant get a loan. And we will open it up and youll be able to get loans and youre going to do great. Were going to hire a lot of people and youre going to expand your businesses. Its going to be a beautiful thing. its going to be a beautiful thing.
It has to happen. So many people cant get jobs. The unemployment number, as you know, is totally fiction.
If you look for a job for six months and then you give up, they consider you you give up. You just give up. You go home. You say, Darling
We want to support every young woman in America who dreams of starting and owning a small business because that dream has not been a dream for the last long period of time.
On health care reform -- and I want to tell you, and I want to thank the women because I kept hearing for months, Im not going to do well with women. I kept saying, why? Whats wrong with women? I think women are -- I said, Ill trade the men for the women, right?
Ill trade the men, I wanted them.
And then we had the election and I did great with women. I lead in many categories, and every time wed have a rally, I have the beautiful pink signs up, right, Women for Trump, Women for Trump. And then Id go home and turn on the television to see how massive my crowd was, and youd never show it? They would never show it. But they talk about women.
Guess what? We did great with women.
African-American, the African-American communities -- unbelievable -- much, much more than in the past for other people. I heard that was going to be off, and it was fantastic. Plus, a lot didnt go out and vote for Hillary, in all fairness.
Hispanic community, incredible.
Now with males I set records, but who cares, right?
Who cares, right? Who cares about the males? Id like to switch it. Id rather set the records with the women, but we did very well with women. We did well with all groups.
Ill tell you where we really did well, an all-time record, not even close -- Evangelicals. I love you.
Evangelicals. We had such great help -- the pastors, the ministers. We had such great help, and I wont go into great detail, but we will get rid of the Johnson amendment, OK? I promise you that. The Johnson amendment, a disaster.
On health care reform, every day the law known as Obamacare...
... is destabilizing our health care system, surging premiums and forcing providers out of the market. They are out of the market. Nobody to talk to, nobody to talk to. If we dont act quickly, the damage will be irreversible and our country cannot afford it, not only cant you afford it, our country cant afford it. Thats why we will and must repeal and replace Obamacare. We have no choice.
You know, premiums, in some states, great state of Arizona, another one I won by a lot that I was supposed to be like really close. But he states -- the beginning of the year, you know, Im saying this is like a lot of fun.
But Arizona was great to me, but Obamacare is up 116 percent. Its going to be much higher.
So were going to get that taken care of. On crime, the murder rate has experienced its largest increase in 45 years. Were going to support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
And we are going to bring this terrible crime wave to an end.
On immigration, will build the wall...
... and we will put an end to illegal immigration and stop the drugs from pouring into our country. The drugs are pouring into our country, poisoning our youth and plenty of other people. We -- we will stop the drugs from pouring into our country. We will stop the drugs from poisoning our great and beautiful, and loving youth. OK? Were going to do it.
And we have a man that well be introducing pretty soon next week who is going to do a phenomenal job called Homeland Security. It used to be a political appointment, now its like the most important appointment. And hes going to do a terrific job. And he and his people are going to keep you safe. They are going to keep you safe.
Not going to be games. These are no longer political appointments. These are talented people, smart people where they have to be their tough people. Is it OK to have some tough people , you know? Because the enemy is tough, right? I think the enemy is pretty tough, right? So I think we need some tough people, but we have smart people and great people.
During this campaign I had a chance to meet the incredible family of Sarah Root, an Iowan native killed at the age of 21 by an illegal immigrant, who is released from custody two separate times.
A Trump administration will stop the violence that is building across our border. And believe youve seen now, it is unbelievable how much there is., And we will fight to protect every last American life and life -- and life.
During the campaign, I also spent time with American workers who were laid off and forced to train the foreign workers brought in to replace them. We wont let this happen anymore.
Can you believe that? You get laid off, and then they wont give you your severance pay unless you train the people that are replacing you. I mean, thats -- thats actually demeaning, maybe more than anything else.
And you know the name of one of the companies thats doing it. I wont - Im going to be nice because were trying to get that company back.
Dont forget, its much harder when a company announced a year and a half ago. Some of these companies like Carrier, they announced long before I even knew I was going to be running for president.
By the way,  for president that day, so what the heck? The movement, its a movement, but thats a lot of hard -- its very hard to tell somebody, We dont want you to leave. We dont want you to go to Mexico or wherever youre going
Thats not a great position. And yet we still kept so many of those workers, so that was a good job. And Ill tell you, our - our governor who will soon be our vice president, Indiana - we call them Indiana Mike. He is -- he is a great guy. Thats one of my great decisions. Hes a friend of mine, but hes a great guy. Hasnt he done a good job? Mike Pence.
Hes done such a good job.
One of my first executive orders will be to ask the Department of Labor to investigate all these abuses that undermine jobs and wages for the American worker.
To protect our country from terrorism and extremism.
We will suspend immigration from regions where it cannot be safely processed or vetted. You know, Ive used the expression extreme vetting." Extreme
We want people coming into our country, we want them coming in legally, but we want them coming in legally, but we want them coming in. You know, when I talked about we will a wall, we will. Theres going to be door, big beautiful doors.
Were going to people coming in to the country, but theyre going to come in through a process, theyre got come in legally, and were going to see that these people have true capability to love us, to love us, not to hate us, to love us.
Earlier today I visited the campus of Ohio State University, great, great place, to meet with victims of the terrible attack that occurred only days ago along with the first responders who were terrific did a phenomenal job. Saved a lot of lives. Our whole nation extends our prayers. Its true.
That man was a young guy. Give him applause, come on.
He might be watching.
So our whole nation extends our prayers, our support and really our solidarity because we are solid, were going to be together. Were going to have be strong stronger together nation, so
You know, I was lucky enough to receive the Time Person of the Year. They use to call it Man of the Year... ""ou know
... but they cant do that anymore, so they call it Person. They want to be politically correct. Thats OK.
And they talked about -heads up -- a divided nation on the cover. They gave me this other, then they have to go a little bit of this stuff -- a divided. I said, I havent been president
Were not going to have a divided nation.
And I want to applaud the University Leadership and students for their response to the attack and their police department really have done a terrific job. And its swift, lifesaving work. I mean, they have really been. It was  by men up to today, they were great people.
This horrific  is yet is you one more tragic reminder that immigration security is now national security. No more games, folks. No more games.
No more games.
A Trump administration will always put the safety and security of the American people first. Its going to be the American People First. It hasnt been that way.
Hasnt that that way. You know, when I look at these that trade deals that I have been studying the much over the last while, I think they meant to make them good for other nations, or maybe that was the concept, because I say, how can the agreement be so bad? Is it possible to be so bad? I believe that they they meant to make it good, maybe to help the other nations, but they are killing us. Are we tired of this? Theyre killing us, OK?
How many of these can you do? So well change them around and well get it going. And you see whats going on, you see whats going on on Wall Street. Its a beautiful thing.
All over the world theyre talking about our country, and we havent even started yet, right? Wait until we start.
Wait until we start -- such potential.

Thank you.
We want to see Apple, and we want to see these great companies start building plants in the United States. Thats what I want to see.
Big plants -- their biggest plants.  reform will be a crucial part of our 100-day plan as well. Were going to drain the swamp...
... of corruption in Washington, D.C.
Funny how that term caught on, isnt it? I tell -- I tell I hated it. Somebody said drain the swamp. I said, Oh
So like a month ago I said, Drain the swamp." The place went crazy. I said
And then I said it, I started loving it." And the  "Lets drain the swamp." I mean
I will impose a five-year ban on the executive branch officials becoming lobbyists and a lifetime ban on officials becoming lobbyists for a foreign government.
We can do it. We can do it. Not going to help.
We faced many challenges, but this is truly an exciting time to be alive. The script is not yet written. We do not know what the page will read tomorrow, but for the first time in a long time, what we do know is that the pages will be authored by each and every one of you.
You, the American people, will be in charge. Your voice, your desires, your hopes and aspirations will never again fall on deaf ears. You will be the captains of your own destiny, and thats what happened during this election. People came down, and people came out, great Americans. They love the country more than anyone, but they havent voted in 20 years and 30 years. Some of them have never voted at all, and they came out and they stood in line for four hours and five hours. And all of these geniuses said, Where did these people come from? Where did they come from? Oh
Now they know, right?
Together, we will raise incomes and create millions and millions of new jobs. We will lower taxes, unleash American energy, and bring thousands of new companies to our shores, and we wont let our companies leave.
We will reestablish the rule of law and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
So important. You dont know what you did when you put me in this position because now we are going to have just that one subject was so important, if nothing else, Supreme Court.
I used to say, if nothing else, you know they have the never Trumps right, the never Trumpers, never Trumpers. By the way, theyre on respirator right now.
Theyre, for the most part, gone.
We had a few never Trump, and now they call themselves only Trump, right? But I will tell you, I used to go into a room early on, and I had some never Trumpers in there. Id say if no other reason, the Supreme Court of the United States -- nothing else -- forget about everything else, right? She knows.
We will fight for the great schools and safe neighborhoods. We will restore respect for America and the American flag. We will heal our divisions and unify our country. When you Americans are unified, there is nothing, nothing we cannot do.
No task is too great, no dream too large, no goal beyond our reach.

My message tonight is for all Americans, from all parties, all beliefs, all walks of life. No matter your age, your income, your background, I am asking you to join this incredible movement. I am asking you to dream big and bold and daring things for your country. I am asking you to believe in yourself, and I am asking you to believe again in America. Its going to be great. Its going to be great.
And if we do that, then altogether, we will make America strong again. We will make America rich again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
