Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Moon Twp., PA|June 11, 2016
So I want to thank you. And you know, were going to start talking about a lot of things. Were going to talk about jobs. We have to bring jobs back. Were going to Bring jobs back to our country. We dont have the same world right now as we had not so long ago. The world has changed. I see that in France.
They have the big soccer tournaments and theyre afraid to have it because of radical Islamic terrorism. And theyre afraid to have it. They dont know what theyre going to do. Maybe theyll have it. The police are saying, we can handle it. And Im saying to myself. Boy, has the world changed. And we have to be strong.
We have to be vigilant. We have to be smart. We have to be tough and cunning. And we cant let this crap happen. We cant. OK. We cant. Weve got weak leaders, folks. Weve got weak, ineffective leaders, whether its on trade, whether its on the military -- our military is in such a bad state. Everybody.
And Ive seen it, and I cant believe it. Our jet fighters -- last week, they did documentaries. Our jet fighters. Were using parts from all planes in the graveyard. You know, the airplane graveyards. Were using parts, stripping those planes, using them on our jet fighters that are 18 to 20 years old. And this is the United States.
And you know what, folks, were going to change, and were going to change fast. I love Big Ben. do we love Big Ben? I just spoke to him. Hes -- what a great guy. And hes with us 100%. What a great guy. And a champ. You know, hes a champion. Two Superbowls. Remember the one, he grabbed a foot. Grabbed that foot.
He was back there, he was falling on his back, and he grabbed a foot. And that would have been a bad day for this program if that happened right. So hes a good champion, hes a good friend of mine, and hes a great guy. Hes a great guy. So I want to say hello to him and a lot of the folks that are friends of his that are friends of mine.
And I got to know him over the years. And you know some people have whats call a champion heart, right. Most people dont. I hate to say. But thats what we need. We need that in Washington. Its time. We have people that are incompetent. We have people that dont know what theyre doing. They have no clue.
They have no clue. Everythings politically correct. I mean, you watch what you say. You say something a little bit off, you end up with the headlines. Its like a bunch of babies. Like a bunch of dumb babies. And believe me, folks, the world is laughing at us. They cant believe whats happening. You look at trade.
300 -- just take a look at whats going on. Countries all over the world taking advantage of us. Mexico, we have a trade deficit. $58 billion a year, and theyre killing us at the border. China. Think of it it. China -- well build a wall. Dont worry about it. Well build a wall. Well build a wall. Were going to build that wall.
And by the way, the Mexican people are great, and the officials leading Mexico, theyre taking advantage of stupid politicians that we have running our country. I dont blame anybody. I blame our politicians. Im not blaming -- look at China. We have a trade deficit with China of $505 billion a year. All right.
505 billion. How the hell do you come out of that hole? And we can make great changes. And you know what, theyre going to make great trade deals. When I deal on it, those deals are going to be great deals. Theyre going to be good for us. Theyre just fine to China. But right now, we have rebuilt China with our money, with our jobs, and they laugh at us. And why do they do that?
They have no respect for Obama whatsoever. Theyll have even less respect for crooked Hillary. Shes the worst. Shes the worst. They dont respect her. They dont respect her. And what are they doing? So theyre taking our jobs, theyre taking our money, and theyre going out in the South China Sea, and theyre building out one of the big, great fortresses of the world right in the middle of the ocean, right in the middle of the South China Sea.
Massive airport hangar. Military Im talking about. And guess what, folks, theyre not supposed to be doing it, but they have no respect. So they take our money, they take our jobs. And they build these massive fortresses, right, that theyre not supposed to be building. And I say to myself, wow, isnt that incredible.
And we have such power over China. Because were the piggy bank that theyre stealing from and destroying. And there are other countries, not just China. China is the biggest and the best abuser. Mexicos gonna be a smaller version of China. They already are. So many companies are leaving here and moving to Mexico.
You have many companies that left this area. Im looking at your numbers. I mean Pittsburgh, youre are wiped out, folks, I hate to say it. You got wiped out. Your manufacturing is way down. Your steel is way down. I look at Pittsburgh, and you know, maybe Im a little old fashioned, but I love steel. OK. I love steel.
And I love the miners. Were going to put the miners back to work, OK. Were going to put the miners back to work. Remember, Hillary, about a month and a half ago, she said, were going to put the coal mines and the miners out of business. Isnt that smart? Isnt that wonderful? Shes not winning Pennsylvania.
Let me tell you, folks. Shes not winning Pennsylvania. She wants to put the coal miners out of business. You know what? Not going to happen. Not going to happen. Im not allowed to use any bad words, by the way. If I use even little bad words, like I almost used the A word since -- but I almost used it. If I used it, theyd say, these people, the dishonest media.
The worlds most dishonest people. If I use the A word, theyd say, oh, Trump used foul language. Horrible, horrible, horrible. If somebody else uses it, forget it. You know I was saying before, because we just came up from Virginia, we just came up last night, we were today in Florida. I mean, were all over the place.
Its a beautiful scene. We were in Tampa. Were all over. And Ill tell you what, we have said this is a movement. This is a movement. This is a movement. And this isnt me just saying it, this is the cover of Time Magazine. Many, many covers over the last number of months. In fact, I hear we have another one coming up this week.
Who knows. Good, bad or indifferent, its a cover. But you know, it is a moment. And a lot of the pundits, even pundits that absolutely hate me. Dont forget, they said hell never run. Hell never run. And then they said, this is the finest group of Republicans ever, ever to run for office before I joined.
In fact, I said to my wife, listen, Im hearing a lot about how great these people are, how can I possibly do this? But the countrys going to hell, and we have to do something about it. And I dont see it happening. So Im watching Fox, and Charles Krauthammer said, before I joined, said this is the single finest group of Republicans perhaps ever to run.
Now maybe he said since like World War 2, but thats fair enough. But perhaps ever to run for office. One of the finest groups. And I said to my family, I said, you know I just heard like these are the finest people ever to run. Then one by one. Boom. Boom. We started off with actually 18. Not 17. But thats okay.
When they thought 18 or 17, it depends on how you define a couple of them, right? But we start off with 18, and then 16. And then 15, and then 13, and then 11 in. And then nine. And then seven and six and five. And then thats where Ive been, three. And then all of a sudden, it was over. And they say, What the hell happened?
What happened is Trump. Its trump. I was talking to one of the -- stance on free trade. I said I have no stance on free trade. Well, why do you have on trade? I said I want to make good deals. They said, what do you mean by that? Very simple. Free trade, not free trade. Fair trade. Theres 90 different definitions.
I want to make good deals. I dont care what you call them. OK. I dont care what you call them. Were going to make great deals for our country thats going to put people back to work. Im not going to have China dumping their steel all over the United States to ruin our plans and ruin our jobs. You know, theyre dumping so much steel.
So much steel. And in the end, what it does is it destroys our capacities. And its not cheaper. Its not going to be cheap. Its going to be much more expensive, ultimately. But theyre dumping. Theyre stealing our intellectual property. $300 billion a year. We do nothing about it. We do nothing about it. And we have tremendous power.
We have a thing called the power of taxation. If they dont behave, we put a tax on the products that come in. By the way, well make a fortune if we do that. But Obama doesnt do it because hes not smart enough. He doesnt understand business. He believes, oh, we shouldnt tax. Except that they tax us when we go in there.
They tax us. And Im not only talking about them. But they tax us. So its like a one way street. They send their stuff in. We try and get it. I have friends who are in the manufacturing business. Great people, great manufacturers. Better than what they have in China. They call me up. They cant do business in China.
They cant get product in. And when they do get it it in, they have to pay like a massive tax. We got ripped off. Youre right. Hes right. He knows. We get ripped off. And Ill tell you what, folks. If in November you come and pull the red trigger, were going to have so much fun together. Were going to have a lot of fun.
And honestly, its not even going to be hard. So one of the greatest man, a great man, said to me, Donald, youre being too tough on China. Youre being too tough on Mexico. Youre being too tough -- no, no. He said. He meant it. This was a number of months ago. He said, youre being too tough on Japan. Japan sends us hundreds of thousands of cars.
Millions of cars. They come off the biggest ships youve ever seen. I was in Los Angeles recently. Im watching. It looks like NASCAR. And by the way, Brian France. The big guy at NASCAR, endorse Trump. Isnt that nice? And Don King, big Don King. We all know Don king, right? Whether you like Don or not, hes a hell of a guy.
But Don King just endorsed Donald Trump. He loves Trump. And by the way, for a guy that really let us down. This poor Mitt Romney is sad. Hes going to run. Hes a sad case. He choked. You know what a choke artist is? Right? You know what a choke -- you know, when I guy misses the kick, you get rid of him.
You bring another one in, right? Because you dont want that thought going in his head too much. He choked. He should have been a failed guy. He was a failed president. He should have beaten a failed president. He went away the last month. Where was he? I even called his people. I said, get him on television.
Say what you like about Obama. He was on Jay Leno. He was on David Letterman. He was all over the place. And Romney was sitting at home, not doing anything. What the hell happened? I asked my people, what happened to him? Where is he? Oh, I think were going to be OK. I think were going to win. I said, get on television.
You got one month. And the guy choked like a dog. And then hes says, Donald trump may have racial tendencies. He called today. Hes a trickle down racist. Thats what Ive never heard. A tricked. And a misogynist. He doesnt know what a misogynist is. Hes a trickled down racist and a misogynist. Now I know why he lost.
I mean, you talk about communication. So the guy was on yesterday CNN. And I said to myself, its absolutely pathetic. He lost. He choked. Like a dog, he choked. And now, its time for somebody else. Were going to win, folks. Were going to win. Were not going to be choke-y. I dont choke. I dont choke.
I backed John McCain. Good guy. That was a tough race, because a lot of bad things were happening. Im not sure if Abraham Lincoln could have won that. But I backed John McCain, big league. I backed Mitt Romney, and he choked and he lost. And I said, this, folks, were going to do it ourselves, and were going to win.
Were going to win. Were going to win, folks. Were not going to put up with this stuff. And we are going to win. You know, one of the great journalists actually called me. Happens to be a liberal, but thats OK. Everyone once in a while, thats OK. Do we hear. Who cares? You know were going to make America great for everybody.
Not for conservatives. Not for Republicans. Not for Democrats. Not for liberal. Were going to make it great for everybody, folks. Were going to make it great. But he called me and he said, you know, youve done something that nobody else has ever done. I said, whats that? He said, what you have achieved in the world of politics has never been done before.
And honestly, Bill OReilly whos a very tough guy and very smart guy, said its one of the greatest -- and its the greatest, actually -- political phenomena that hes ever seen. Not bad, right? I mean, you know. And others. Even said that he hates me. This guy hates me. The level of hatred from some of these people is incredible.
And a lot of its because they were wrong. You know they were wrong. They said, youll never run. Hes never going to run. You know, they say he paid a lot of money to be prognosticators, right? Donald Trump will never run. The next day, I announced Im running. Then they say, well, Donald Trump has started to run, but he will never do very well because we have all of these great candidates.
So I decide to run, and I started off, you know, with -- you start off like everyone else. You start off with nothing. And then the first week, I went to 8. Well he has reached the ceiling. Hell always able to get 8, but he has reached the ceiling. Next week, the polls come out, hes at 14. Well you know, thats surprising, but 14 is his absolute ceiling.
There is no nothing he can do to go higher than 14. Then I go to 20. Then I go to 28. 32, 38, 48. 51. Then I go to 55. Then in New York, I get a 62. Then in california again, 78%. And you know what, something that nobody talks about because they dont want to. If I was a Democrat, theyd talk about it plenty.
In the history of the Republican party, right, you know. Abe Lincoln. Were talking about a long time. In the history of the Republican party, Ive got the most votes. You got the most votes. Im the messenger. Im a good messenger. You have to say. Youre doing a great job. Im just the messenger. But in the history of the Republican party, Dwight D. Eisenhower, great guy.
We won the second World War, and I think other people had something do with it, in all fairness. But hes got a lot of credit for winning the second World War. He runs for president. I beat him. Richard Nixon. We beat Richard Nixon. Ronald Reagan, who we love, we beat Ronald Reagan. We beat Bush. We beat everybody.
In the history of the Republican party. We, we, we, all together. The movement, got the most votes of anybody in the history of the congress. But I dont mean by right. Weve beaten them out. Oh, we edged them by a Couple of edge.No, no. By millions of votes. By millions and millions of votes. You know, its amazing.
And the Republican party, Im not going to take full credit for, but Ill take 99.9. The Republican party got more votes and had the biggest increase, about 70% increase, over what it was four years ago when we had that loser Mitt Romney representing us. 70% more people. And the people that support us -- you know, a lot of people, they werent at the polls.
So 40 years, I see them. Men, women, theyre at the polls. And I remember in South Carolina and New Hampshire. New Hampshire, I love -- I mean, these are the states where I did really well early, and it was an amazing thing. The feeling I have. By the way, Im going to make a pretty good speech on Monday, so stay tuned.
Stay tuned. Im going to do it in New Hampshire because that was the home of my first victory. I went to New Hampshire. Bush was favored to win. From that whole thing. No. Low energy. Low energy, folks. And hes not living up to his obligation, because when he signed the pledge, he said, I will do this. Meaning, I will endorse whoever it is. It was me. And he says, I wont do it. So what hes doing is, you know, very -- its very dishonorable.
But Bush, hes favored to win, except when I won in a landslide. And we won in Massachusetts. Now its nice that Tom Brady likes me. That helps, right? We got almost 50% of the vote. We got almost 50 percent of the vote with like eight or nine candidates in there. Now you know I never got credit for that, because when these pundits who hate me. I even did some of them, but most of them hate me. But when these pundits go out, right, they go out, and they say Donald Trump only got 34% percent of the vote.
They didnt say there were 15 candidates. Actually getting 35% of the vote with 15 people in the race is is better than when I got 78% in California. And just remember this, with California, they had a lot of names on the board. You know, its not like its totally over. They could vote for anybody they want, because all of the names or many of the names are on. So when you get all of these numbers, but all the time, I had to listen to this, because I think its the largest deal in the history of elections, the 17 or 18 people that started.
So I was competing against all of these governors and senators and very capable people like Dr. Ben Carson, whos a great guy, by the way. Great guy. And I spent years in Philadelphia -- and Philadelphia is not Pittsburgh, right. I know that. But we love Philadelphia, too. Brotherly love. And we do love Pennsylvania, and thats where it all comes together.
But so Ive been in this state, and I know this state very well. And this is a great, great state. So I win Pennsylvania big, big. And then I win Connecticut big. In fact, they just did a poll in Connecticut. Republicans are not supposed to even waste their time going to Connecticut. I love Connecticut. A poll just came in where Im a few points behind, and people are saying thats incredible.
A poll just came down in Pennsylvania, by the way where were leading. A poll just came out in Ohio where were leading. A poll just came out in the great state of Florida, were leading by two points, and we havent even started campaigning yet. You know why were leading? Because people are sick and tired of this stupidity thats going on with our country.
Theyre tired of it. Theyre tired of it. Were going to have a great country, and were going to have a country thats unified. Were going to have a country -- I thought one thing about Obama. I thought that Obama would be a cheerleader for the country. Thats the one thing. I never thought he was going to be the president in terms of greatness.
I thought hed be a great unifier, a great cheerleader for the country. He is a great divider. The country has practically never been so divided as it is now. And were going to bring everybody together, folks. White, black. Were going to bring everybody together. Were bringing our country together. The richer, the poorer, everybody.
And you know, one of the reasons were going to bring it together, its the old story. Its called jobs. Because Im not going to let other countries take out jobs. Like Carrier, where they move their factory to Mexico, they fire everybody. And Ford where they take tremendous numbers of people out of their system, and they build these massive plants in Mexico.
And so many other countries. You know, its funny. So many of these companies, theyre ran and owned by friends of mine. So now Im getting calls. They say, Don, please dont mention my company. Please dont mention my company, and Im running out of companies. And I know so many of these guys. But you know, when people are friends, you dont mention their companies, right?
Should I, or not? Yeah. I wont. You gotta be loyal. By the way, theres no shortage, I can tell you. The list is is a mile long, of companies that are leaving. Look at this area. In ten years, youve lost 45, 50% of your manufacturing jobs. Whoever heard of a thing like that? I mean first of all NAFTA is like one of the worst things ever to happen to our country from an economic standpoint.
And who signed NAFTA? Bill Clinton. And a lot of people said, oh, we had pretty good economic times with Clinton. Well, we didnt have good times, if you remember. There were a lot of bad times. First of all, he was impeached. There was a big impeachment mess. It was a mess, just like it will be with Hillary.
With Hillary, itll be worse. But remember this. I think called impeachment. Remember the turmoil in the holy -- but just think. We did OK. But the people that followed him because of that horrible thing he signed got killed because NAFTA stripped the jobs out of this country. I toured New York. I toured Connecticut.
I toured Pennsylvania. I toured all over the place. I was in Maryland. I look at places that were vibrant 20 years ago, with incredible factories, and those factories, you could buy them for $1. You can buy them for nothing. And actually, from a real estate standpoint, you should do it, because if I win, those factories are going to be put back to work again.
Believe me. Although theyre in pretty bad shape, youll probably just rip them down. But were going to have our jobs back. OK. Not such a bad investment. I just saw this recently. Its in one of the papers, that cashing in. Illegal immigrants get $1,261 more welfare than American families. They got five -- think of this.
This is illegals. $ 5,692 versus $4,431. So they get more money than American families get. Where are we -- what are we doing? What are we doing? Now what are we doing? You know, theyre all screaming, build the wall. Its not just the wall. But we are going to build the wall. You know, recently, the president of Mexico from a few years ago, Vicente Fox.
He was on television. You know what happened. And he threw around the F bomb. And he said, we will not finance or give the money to build the wall. But he said it differently, because he said we will not pay for that F bomb wall. The F bomb. He used the F on live television on CNN. I said, whoa, hes hes going to be -- oh its gonna be so bad tomorrow.
Where do you see. it? Nobody wrote about it. Can you imagine if I used the F bomb. Would that be. That would be the electric chair, right? Theyd give Trump the electric chair. OK. If I use the F bomb. So he said, we will not, under any circumstances -- always said he was going crazy, sitting in a chair.
I thought hes going to -- look, I wont say. But he was going crazy. But we will not pay for that f bomb law. And I said whoa, is he in trouble. But then I said to myself, hey, Im happy. Because two years ago, he said we will never allow that wall to be built. So now, at least he knows its going to be built.
And the reason. Look, the reason -- this is very important -- the reason that theyre going to pay for it -- were going to have a great relationship with Mexico. Much better than we have now. Were going to have good relations. When Sergeant Tamaricio -- remember Sergeant Tamaricio? He made a wrong turn.
He had a lot of difficulties. When Sergeant Tamaricio was there, they kept him in the worst prison. They treated him horribly. They shouldve let him go. He had difficulties. They should have let him go. And they didnt let him go. And I dont even know if anybody called. Ill tell you what, I would have been on the phone the first night.
I wouldve called the president of Mexico. Ill say, let him go. Let him go. I dont think Obama called. The guy was in there for a long time. And I helped him out and. And I helped him out, and Greta helped him out. I have to say, Greta. Greta Van Susteren helped him out. And I helped him out. But relationship, as you call him up, you say, do me a favor.
Guy made a mistake. Let him out. Because the people were going crazy. And how about this? Bergdahl. Right? Sergeant Bergdahl. Sergeant Bergdahl. Heres the way we deal, folks. We get Bergdahl, a total traitor, where probably five or six people were killed trying to find him. Probably -- definitely five, probably six, killed going out trying to get him back.
So we get Bergdahl, and they get five of their worst killers that theyve been after and trying to get out of prison for nine years. So we get one, they get five. Those five now. I saw just the other night. Theyre back in the field trying to kill everybody, including us. Folks, folks, we got to be so much tougher and so much smarter.
I call them the five for one president. And how about the deal with Iran? We get nothing. We gave them a $150 billion, and it was only after that. Remember, they took our sailors, our 10 sailors. And they would kept them forever, except they wanted the money, it was due the following day, right? So stupid, theyre not.
So they humiliated us. They humiliated the sailors. Then they let him go. And I remember after a few days, and Kerry said, we would like to thank Iran. They got $150 billion, all right? Who the hell would have kept him. So they would have kept him, believe me. And that shouldve never happen. We had hostages.
We should never have negotiated while those hostages were held. We should have said, gone into the room, say, release your hostages. If you dont release the hostages, the deals out. Get up. Walk out. Theyre great negotiators, the Iranians, the Persians. Theyre great negotiators. Always have been. You know youre not supposed to generalize.
Ill generalize. OK. Theyve always been great negotiators. And weve got a guy who doesnt know what the hell hes doing. Secretary Kerry, President Obama. President Obama -- President Obama is incompetent, OK. Hes incompetent. Remember that. Hes incompetent. Now. Yeah, we have a president who doesnt -- just doesnt have it. He doesnt have it. So heres whats going to happen.
Heres whats going to happen. And what should happen then. You get up and you walk, the art of the deal. I mean, you know give me a break. We never walked once. You know did you ever see that negotiation. We would like to have the following the Americans. No. They go, No. Oh, OK. Well agree with you. Everything was no, no, no. OK. Well take it. Well take it. Never walked, never left.
They should have said, we have to have our prisoners back. Look, folks, they dont help you. Good for us. Our people are angry. Good thing for us. Youve got to release them. They will say no. Theyre going to say no, were not going to do it. And then you say, sorry, we cant negotiate. You leave the room.
You get on the plane. You double up the sanctions. By the time you land in Washington, youre going to turn around the plane. The prisoners or hostages will be released 100%. Like 100 -- you know, I hate to say the art of the deal, because thats so simple, who would even write about it, right? Who would even have to write about it. And then you start to negotiate.
And the other thing, I negotiate two points. And then nuclear is very important. I love negotiating. But you have to get a good deal. Not a deal thats going to destroy Israel, which this deal will do. This deal is so destructive for Israel and our country, that how they could have allowed it to happen is incredible.
How they could have allowed it to happen. So I want two things. I want our prisoners back before we start. They would have been back three years ago. That was the longest negotiation. You know usually, a negotiation that takes that long is no good. Thats No. 1. But you know, we sat there just for years just giving them everything they wanted.
How about this? They were dancing all over Iran at the deal before it was signed. Who the hell signs the deal when the whole country is saying how stupid you are getting this deal before you signed it. But they wanted to sign the deal. Horrible for our allies. Horrible for Israel. Very bad for us. Weve created a real power.
The second thing I wouldnt have given them. I would have never given them the $150 billion back. Wouldnt have. And I would have done it -- you know, my father was a great guy. He was a builder in Brooklyn and Queens. And he said to me, I learned a lot. And I sit in his knee. And I learned by osmosis. He didnt really teach me. I just learned.
You know hed be on the phone with a plumber or with a sheet rock guy or with a pipe fitter. And he said, no, no, you got to lower your price. Cant do it. Cant do it. You know, I grew up with that. It was like in your brain. And now, were doing the old post office. Were way below budget, way ahead of schedule.
Everybody wanted it in Washington D.C. The old post office in Pennsylvania Avenue, right near the White House. I always said, if I dont make it folks, Im still going to be living in Washington D.C. OK. And its gonna be a great building. Its gonna be -- I think were going to make it, right? I tell you what.
Ill tell you what. Ill tell you. I really think we are going to make it. And I think were gonna make it big league. And were going to turn our country around. By the way, the old post office. So the old post office, right now, is almost two years ahead of schedule. And I told my people, dont say two years, because its not a believable number.
Its almost two years. But I say its not. But just say its a year ahead of schedule. Because two years, it almost sounds too much, but so Ill say it, were 2 years. But were a year ahead of schedule, and were under budget. And the quality is much, higher. I think its gonna be one of the great hotels of the world.
Its going to be Trump International hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue. And were going to open in September. But I think were going to have probably our opening ceremony toward the end of October. I dont want to have it too early. But think of this. Were under budget and ahead of schedule. Do you ever hear that from our government, right?
You ever hear that? Never hear that from our government. So a lot of things are happening. The run has been amazing. The crowds, the momentum, and the movement has been amazing. No matter where we go, we have 20,000, 25,000 people. In Mobile, Alabama, we have 35,000 people. We have by far the biggest grass.
Far bigger than Bernie Sanders. And by the way Bernie was second, I have to say, but it wasnt even close. But you know during this whole campaign, and I was saying, a number of weeks ago, I think weeks ago, we had a crowd 17,000. Bernie had three on the same night, different cities. So we had 17. And I had the folks at CNN, actually.
And they were saying, this is so-and-so from CNN, Im at a Donald Trump rally, and everythings good. Ha Ha Ha. And you got to see the spirit in the room, people are going crazy. Theyre standing ovation. There were seats, but nobody was sitting down. The people were going crazy, and you listen, it sounds like theres 200 people standing there right.
And thats the end. And now, over to you. And then Bernie Sanders rally. So they didnt mention 17,000 people, right, or 18 -- whatever it was on. A lot. Now they go to Bernies. Were at the Bernie Sanders rally. Its a massive crowd -- they have to have at least 3,000 people. Its unbelievable. Look at all the people.
So I have 17,000 people. And its like falling asleep for the reporters. He has 3,000 people, and theyre talking about the 3,000 people. Let me tell you, folks. As Republicans -- as Republicans, and the more conservative you get, the harder it gets. It is so unfair the dishonesty of the media, the dishonesty of those people back there.
But the beauty of it is. The beauty of it is that the people are really smart. They get it. I mean, they really understand whats going on. Its an incredible thing to see. They get it. Thats why I love my party. You dont see any protesters. Are there any protesters? Because I love the protesters because the only time the cameras ever turn to show how massive these audiences are, the only time -- I mean, its like an incredible thing.
Its when we have a protest -- do we have a protester anywhere, please. Sometimes, you know what Im going to start doing? Taking friendly, putting them up in corners of a room and letting them protest. OK. Thats the only time. I didnt think they could move the cameras. I thought they were maybe modern equipment, its fixed.
And then about my third speech, we had a protester. Bad guy. Nasty. Loud. Started swinging at people. And when my people swung back, it was like, oh, my people are terrible. My people are terrible. But this was a loud guy. And then all of a sudden, it was like in a strange corner of the room, and those cameras that I didnt think could move, I thought they were fixed wing.
All of a sudden, theyre bent like a pretzel. Everything -- theyre getting the protester from every angle, every shot. Now theres tremendous dishonesty, folks. Theres tremendous, tremendous dishonesty. But with all of that, with all of the stuff that goes on, and all of the phony reporting and dishonest reporting, the people are getting in. And thats why were being covered like nobody, no place in the world.
Whats going on is being covered like no place in the world. You know the Republican party was a little bit stayed. Was that a nice way of saying it? A little bit stayed. Stayed. You know how to spell stayed, right? And the Republican party was not exactly the most exciting place to be. And this year, were up 70, and the Democrats are down 32 or 33 in the primaries.
OK were up 70%. And theyre down 32. Think of it. So whats happening is an incredible thing. I have to say this. I said to the leaders of the Republican Party. Folks, youve got to get tougher. Youve got to be tougher. Youve got to be strong. Weve had a lot of losses. Weve lost a lot of these presidential elections over the last long period of time.
Youve got to get strong. Youve got to get tough. Youve got to be smart, or youre not going to have a lot of victories. And Ill be honest, Im talking about for them. Because I think Im going to win anyway. I really think I can win. I dont want to do it that way. Do you understand what I mean? Im not even sure its not better for me. But Id like to see the Republican leadership get very strong, very sharp, very smart, and be cool.
You got to be cool. But were winning either way. We are going to win either way. And were going to set this country back on course. And were not going to protect all of these nations where were subsidizing the military protection of massive nations that are making fortunes of money and they are paying us a fraction of what it costs.
Can you imagine? As an example, Japan, great people. I love it. But we subsidize Japan, and yet, theyre sending us cars. You know what we send them? Wheat. We send them beef. They send us millions of cars, and we send them beef. And they dont want the beef. Half the time, they want to send it back. They dont even want it because their farmers dont want it. You talk about a trade imbalance.
Take a look at the trade imbalance between the United States and Japan. One of the great trade imbalances anybody has ever seen. Its cars versus a piece of Kobe steak. You know why Kobe steak, because it gets back and forth so much, that by the time it finally gets in Japan, its rotted. And thats why Kobe beef is right.
Its old, old, old beef that they charge a lot of money for. A pretty sad way. But let let me just tell you something. Let me just tell you. Weve got to be smart. We can no longer subsidize all of them. We subsidize Germany. We subsidize Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia. Now before the oil went down -- theyre still making a lot.
But before the moment, they were making a billion dollars a day. And were subsidizing them. We have our military. We are paying the rent on military bases. Were paying rent. Theyre charging us rent. And were over there to protect them. And honestly, I have many Saudi friends. Obviously, many German friends.
Obviously, I have a lot of people from Japan and other countries, South Korea. We have 28,000 soldiers on the line between North and South Korea. And every time potentially the madman raises his head or opens his mouth, we send our ships and our planes and we have everybody read. They gotta pay us something we dont get.
And if you can you imagine if these countries payed just a fair price for this, youre talking about a whole different United States. This isnt 40 years ago, and its not 20 years ago. We are stone cold broke. We owe 19 trillion dollars. Nobody even knows what a trillion is. They dont know. I have a smart guy, made millions and millions and maybe billions of dollars on Wall Street.
Id say define trillion for me quickly. He said, lets see, its blah, blah, blah. You know how much money this is. We owe 19 trillion, going up to 21 trillion because of the omnibus budget, which was passed. Which by the way, allows Syrian refugees in. We have no idea where they are, who they are, where they come from.
Excuse me folks. Theyre coming to Pittsburgh. You just dont know it. OK. Theyre coming to Pittsburgh. You dont know. Theyre being put all over the country just like they want to be. And who knows? You know we talk about Trojan horse. We talk about Trojan horse. And maybe its a Trojan horse. And maybe its not.
But we have enough problems in this country. When you look at Paris. When you look at San Bernardino. When you look at all these different places. Couple of things I have to tell you. Were going to give you a massive tax decrease, and get this country back to work for business and for bidding. Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes very substantially, possibly to 55 or 60 percent.
That is going to be the end. Shes going to raise your taxes. And you know what? She has no plan. She doesnt talk about it. She wont talk about it. Shes got to raise them to at least 55 percent. Im lowering taxes substantially for the middle class who are being run out of our country. And Im lowering them for business.
Big league. Another thing. Were getting rid of Common Core. Were going to bring education local. Local education. Were repealing and replacing Obamacare. 100%. Disaster. Obamacare is a disaster. Hillary Clinton wants to abolish the Second Amendment. In other words, she wants to take your guns away, folks.
Now the NRA, National Rifle Association just endorsed me. I think its the early endorsement theyve ever given to a candidate. So we are going to stand totally strong. Totally strong. They want to abolish it. They literally want to take your guns away. You know, if in San Bernardino or in Paris. Paris is probably the toughest place in the world to have a gun.
So these thugs walk in, and they go boom, boom, boom, kill 130, hundreds in the hospital, still in the hospital. Theyll never be the same. Just horrific injuries. And if we had a couple of like the folks here. Like this guy here with the Trump hat on. The blue Trump hat. Right there, the handsome man with a beautiful head of hair.
Look at the beautiful head of hair on that guy. What are you wearing a hat for? If we had a couple of people in San Bernardino, or lets say Paris, they were in there and they had a gun right around here or a gun strapped around their ankle, and the bullets were flying in the opposite direction also. No. 1, they probably wouldnt have even gone there if they knew there were guns.
OK. Remember that. Dont underestimate that. But No. 2, assuming they did, and they started playing games, the carnage is going to be one hell of a lot smaller than it ended up being. So we are going to protect our Second Amendment. Hillary Clinton wants to abolish your Second Amendment. And Ill tell you what.
On that issue alone, I think we win the election. I really do. I think we win the election. So a lot of things have happened. Our country doesnt win anymore. Our military, as we said, is depleted, but were going to start taking care of it, and were going to knock the hell out of ISIS. Youre right. Were going to knock that.
We have no choice. I didnt want to go in Iraq. I said I didnt want to go from the beginning. I didnt want -- youre going to destabilize the Middle East. But you know what -- and thats exactly what happened. Ive been a good prognosticator. You know, about a month ago, I was asked on CNN by Wolf Blitzer.
I was asked about NATO. Now Im a business man. Im not like asked about NATO too often. Its not like, oh, gee, Im the old Timex, but I have a lot of common sense. And I know NATO, and I understand NATO. He said, what do you think about NATO? Something to that effect. And I said, well, let me tell you.
No. 1, its obsolete, because it doesnt really cover properly terrorism. No. 2, you have countries in there, because I read this someplace, that arent paying what theyre supposed to pay, and some arent paying practically at all. And were protecting them. And if something happens to them, what do we do? Go into World War 3 over a country thats not even paying us. And the next day in the press, oh, thats terrible.
What a terrible answer. He doesnt like NATO. Oh bunch of phony people. And then about two weeks after I said it, some people -- you know, you cant see the forest through the trees, right? All of a sudden people that were experts in NATO were saying, you know, Trump had a point. It is obsolete. And we dont really cover terror.
And we dont need to have the right countries in there if youre talking terror, because its a different kind of terror. And Trumps right. And you know what else? A lot of these countries arent paying. Theyre not paying. They owe us 2% percent of GDP, or 3% of GDP. Theyre not paying. Because its like in the real estate business, you know real state, we say theyre delinquent.
Theyre not paying their bill. Theyre delinquent. Theyre not paying. We have to get somebody to ask for the money. They gotta pay. We were protecting, and they dont pay. And all of a sudden, people are saying, NATO was good. All right. That was the end of that. Then three days ago on the front page of The Wall Street Journal, NATO to open up massive terror operation.
And I dont even know that much about NATO. Its called instinct. Its called common sense. Thats what you need. And they dont give me credit. They only said in the article, like a little half sentence. Donald Trump complained about it also. Great. Thank you very much. I appreciate. Because of me -- and theyve taken like one of their top, top, top generals, and they put him in charge.
Good thing to do, by the way. Good thing to do. But Im the one. If I didnt give that answer, and then the answer got a lot of heat, and then it got a lot of praise. But now, they open front page of The Wall Street Journal, whole big article. NATO to operate an open major terror group. Meaning, to oversee.
And one of their top people is put in charge. Thats common sense, folks. Thats common sense. Remember I said take the oil. I didnt want to be in Iraq. But I said when you leave, take the oil. But you know whos gonna get the oil. ISIS already has the oil. And Iran is going to get the oil. You think Iran made a good deal with that deal.
They made an even better deal because we practically handed them Iraq. For years, they would fight each other, right? Theyd fight, fight, fight. Their military was almost identical. They go 10 feet this way, 10 feet that way. 10 feet. Then they take a break for two years. Then they fight. Thats what they do, they fight.
We found that out. They go and they fight. And this went on for decades. Then we decapitate -- stupidly, we decapitate one of the militaries. And now Iran, as sure as youre standing here, Iran is taking over Iraq. We gave it to them. We handed them. They wanted to do it for forever. And we handed them. Thats better than the Iran deal that our very incompetent Secretary of State signed with him.
So now Iran is going to end up with Iraq. They have Yemen, and they dont want Yemen. But they love the border to Saudi Arabia. And let me just tell you. I said Saudi Arabia doesnt pay us nearly enough. Boy, what Id do. I say fellas, I saw that magnificent 777, Boeing 777. You guys never want to fly commercial, do you?
Because you know what, if we ever left Saudi Arabia, that thing would be gone so fast. So fast. And all you need is somebody that knows how to negotiate. They got to pay us for our services. They got to pay us. And if they pay us, we have a whole different country. If these people -- and were not doing it as a threat, and you have to be prepared to walk.
Its possible we have to walk. And dont forget, we now have energy capacity that were not even using because of all the restrictions and all of the problems. We now have -- so we dont need these countries that weve died for and spent trillions of dollars for. So they got to help us out. They got to help us out.
And just in closing Ill say this. Look, when I decided to -- I didnt need this. Its 140 degrees up here. Thats the end of this suit. Soaking wet. Does anybody want my jacket? You dont want it. I dont need this, but Im having a lot of fun. Im getting to know the people in this country. We have unbelievable people.
This country, when I say Make America Great Again. Its gonna be Make America Great Again for everybody. And its also gonna be we can make America -- I really believe this greater than ever before. You know when we had the debates, I didnt know anything about debating. And yet every single poll. Drudge, great guy.
Time Magazine -- every single poll had Trump winning every single debate. Every poll, every debate. I was on center stage, and I didnt know. I mean, Ted Cruz was this great student from Harvard and Princeton, and he was a debate champion. And they had me winning every debate. OK. I dont want to get into -- you know what?
I liked Ted Cruz. I just like -- hes got a side. Nice guy. I dont care if people endorse me, but I do want them, when they sign the pledge. They gotta sort of live up to what they say, because then I have -- I feel definitely. But we did great. But heres what happened. They go out. They go on Fox. They get 24 million people.
The largest in the history of cable, right? Then a few weeks later CNN goes on with the debate. The largest in the history of CNN. They cover wars. They cover big events. The debate. They have 23 million people on CNN, largest in the history of CNN with all theyve covered, and with their long and very incredible history.
So they have the big -- two biggest events in the history of cable television. Now Im not going to say its because of me. But lets say if I was in, what would you have, two people watching. OK. So somethings happening out there. Its a great thing. Its a beautiful thing to watch, Im telling you. Theres a movement going on thats incredible.
One of the pollsters say any number that Donald Trump gets, you can add something to it. Because a lot of time, its a very embarrassing statement. You know it goes both ways. Sometimes youll have this stiff whos a nice person. And everybody wants to say, yes, Ill vote for him. But then they get him to vote for somebody else.
With me, its just the opposite. They say, when he goes into the boat, they wont tell us, because they dont want us to know that were voting for Donald Trump. Somebody said, hes too tough. Hillary says, I dont like his temperament. She said, I dont like his tone. We have people chopping off the heads of Christians and anybody else who gets in the way in the Middle East.
We have people killing people at the border like youve never seen before. The crime is far greater than anybody knows. I was right about that, by the way. And we have all of these things happening. And she says, I dont like his tone. Well let me tell you a book was written by a Secret Service agent. And they talked about Hillary.
And they said, shes a horror show. Shes got the worst temperament theyve ever seen. Shes a maniac. And if she was ever president, it would be a disaster. So folks, folks, true. True. So true. So folks, we dont win anymore -- but were going to win. Were going to win with our military were going to win a trade.
Were going to win at the border. Were going to win with health care. Were going to win with education were going to save our second amendment. We are going to win again folks. We are going to win so much. I wont go through the whole exercise, which I love doing, and you love hearing. But you know what, I wont do it. Im just telling you -- he says, do it, please.
Im just telling you we are going to win so much, youre going to be so proud of your president, and youre going to be so proud -- much more importantly, youre going to be so proud of your country. Were going to win. Were going to reduce your taxes. Were going to save your Social Security. Were going to win at every single front.
