Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Meets With Governors and Members of Congress from Rural Areas|April 12, 2018
So this is a group I like very much. Were here to discuss agriculture -- very important. And these are great people, great Americans, great patriots. And theyve been treated very badly for a long time. And if you look at the farmer, its been, unfortunately, over a 12-year period, trending downward. Very much trending downward. So were changing things with respect to trade and trade with other countries.
A lot of times, the farmers sort of -- they know what they have. But itll be very good when we get it all finished. Itll be great. People are a little bit concerned going into that wild blue yonder, or, in our case, the wild red yonder.  But I will say that the farmers are going to be -- theyre going to do fantastically well.
But they have been trending downward for a long period of time, and were not going to have that. A lot of it is because of bad trade deals.
So Im pleased to be joined by several of our nations governors -- very distinguished governors -- and members of Congress to talk about trade and agriculture.
As you know, the recent investigation led by U.S. Trade Representative Bob Lighthizer -- whos with us today also -- identified a pattern of chronic Chinese trading abuses, including theft of intellectual property and trade secrets, and forced technology transfers, which has cost this country hundreds of billions of dollars, and also, the targeting of American technology. Its cost us untold hundreds of billions of dollars over the years.
Larry Kudlow is here and hes shaking his head, approvingly -- meaning, of what Im saying.
But disapprovingly of what theyve done.
As you are all aware, China has consistently treated the United States agriculture unfairly. I was very proud of something I did at Mar-a-Lago, in Florida. I had President Xi, whos a friend of mine, whos a very, very good man. And I dont blame China; I blame our representatives that -- our people over the past, our Presidents and negotiators and trade representatives -- that they allowed this to happen.
But during a very brief conversation, I said, President, the United States, we want to sell beef again to China. Now, they hadnt sold it in, what, 14 years or something. And he looked at me and he said, Say it again. I said, We want to sell beef -- thats a big industry -- in China. And he said, We will sell beef in China. And we did other things too. But the one that really is the most interesting for the people at this table is beef.
And I think, Governor, that made a big impact, and theyre selling a lot of beef in China that hadnt been -- for 14, 15 years, they were not allowed to sell beef in China.
So we have the kind of a relationship that, I think, is going to be very aggressively sustained. Yesterday, as you know, President Xi made a very good speech, and he said hes going to open up China. Hes going to open it up, take down a lot of the trade barriers -- maybe all of them -- but take down a lot of trade barriers.
And hes going to get rid of a lot of the taxes or tariffs that they charge. Because, right now, if you have -- and I use this example because its so easy -- if we sell a car into China, number one, they wont take the car; and number two, if they did take the car, its 25 percent tariff.
Whereas we have no barrier, and when they sell a car into us, its 2.5 percent. So they have barriers, but when they dont have barriers, its 25 percent versus 2.5 percent. Thats not a good way to make money. Chuck will tell you that. So were straightening that out.
We want to be reciprocal. So if they charge 25, we charge 25. If they charge 2.5, we charge 2.5. And maybe what happens is we both charge nothing, because I know wed all like that. I think Ben would like that better than anybody, okay? Thats simpler than 25. Lets save all the transfer of funds, right?
So thats what we want. We want more trade. e want no barriers. But the only way you can knock it down, you cant just go in -- for 25 years, Presidents have been trying to negotiate and theyve been very unsuccessful, because theyd meet and theyd say, Can we talk?
And the Chinese would say, Yes, we can. And thats what they do -- they talk for four years, then theyll talk for another four years, and that would be the end of that. Nothing would happen. So nothing would happen. So were doing a job there.
NAFTA -- were renegotiating NAFTA. Its coming along great. I have no time. You know, I keep reading from the fake news media that were pushing it. Im not pushing it; I dont care. Oh, youre laughing. Thats good, Chuck. See, Fox can smile because --  -- you know, you do a very beautiful job.
But I keep hearing how were pushing NAFTA, we want it done. Theres no timeline. Theres no timeline. Now, in the meantime, nobody is moving into Mexico. Because as long as NAFTA is in flux, no company is going to spend a billion dollars to build an automobile plant.
So I say this -- Ive told it to the Mexicans: We can negotiate forever. Because as long as we have this negotiation going, nobody is going to build billion-dollar plants in Mexico, which is what theyve been doing a lot. They have taken our auto industry by the throat. And so many jobs have been lost, so many massive plants have been built in Mexico. Top-of-the-line stuff. But its not happening now, and theyre coming back. Chrysler has moved back; a lot of them have moved back.
And the same thing with agriculture, which is going to be our predominant discussion today. So agriculture is okay with NAFTA. Not great. Were going to make it great. Were going to make it great.
And were getting pretty close to a deal. It could be three or four weeks. It could be two months; it could be five months. I dont care. In fact, if everybody in this room closed their ears, Id say Id rather terminate NAFTA and make a brand new deal, but Im not going to do that because I want everyone to be happy in this room, okay? Well see how it goes.
But were going to make a fair NAFTA deal, much better than it is right now. NAFTA has cost this country hundreds of billions of dollars. It has been a disaster. Weve lost 50,000 factories, millions of jobs. NAFTA has been a disaster.
So were going to either come up with a great NAFTA deal, and a fair one for this country, or were going to just do something else. And agriculture will be taken care of 100 percent.
So were going to have a discussion today and were going to talk about agriculture as it relates to trade, primarily. Again, were doing really well with China. I think were having some great discussions, and well see what happens. We put a $50 billion tariff on, and then we put $100 billion tariff on. And, you know, at a certain point, they run out of bullets.
Remember what I said: When youre $500 billion down, you cant lose a trade war. And I wont call it a trade war because its really a trade negotiation. But nobody ever negotiated from our side. Nobody ever did anything. All they did was talk. And in the meantime, we helped rebuild China because they took so much money -- bridges, and airports, and military, and everything. They took so much -- hundreds of billions of dollars out of our country.
So now were really negotiating, and I think theyre going to treat us very fairly. I think they want to. And again, I dont blame my friend, President Xi. I blame our representatives, for years, that didnt do a damn thing, and they allowed it to happen. I wish we could do what they did because that would make everybody at this table very happy. So perhaps were in the process of doing it.
The other thing is, if you look at the European Union -- were talking to them -- I dont know if you realize it, but they have virtual barriers against even agriculture, from going in. So they sell us their Mercedes-Benzes, and they sell us their BMWs, and they sell all the different things. And we have no barriers whatsoever.
Hello, Pete. Good job youre doing. Nebraska, folks. Doing a good job. He never liked me until we met.  Right? He was a Never Trumper. And his family.
No, the whole family.  And then I flew to Nebraska -- a state I love -- I made a speech, and he liked me. And from then on, he called his brother -- he said, Trump is good. Lets be friends. Then we became --
And thats what were doing, right? Did I deliver? I did that quickly.
In one conversation. So -- good to see you, Pete. So we are opening up the European Union or were not going to be very nice about it. At the European Union, well lose about $151 billion this year. We lose with almost everybody. We lose with Canada. We lose with Mexico. We lose with the European Union. We lose with -- certainly, we lose with China, Vietnam. I mean, no matter where you go, its very rare -- very rare that our country has a surplus.
But were changing it. And, as Ben said, we want to have trade. And we want to have barriers taken down because the barriers, in many cases, are far worse than the tariffs. I mean, the tariffs can be bad, but the barriers are very bad.
So the European Union makes it very hard for agricultural products because their farmers dont want you there. The farmers say, We dont want the American farmers. But thats not fair because we take all of their stuff. A lot of cars and lot of other things. So theyre going to have to take down the barriers because we cant have it.
You know, when you think of European Union, you think so friendly, so nice. Theyre very brutal to us in terms of trade. So were talking about that, too.
In the end, the farmers are going to be, I think, the biggest beneficiary from all of whats happening. They are great people. We love our farmers. They were so good to me during the election, that whole -- much more than center of the country. Its a big group of people, Joni. Right?
But Sonny Perdue came, and he said, Look at this. And he hung up a map, and the whole thing is red. And those are those farmers, and we love those farmers. Right? Were going to take care of the farmers. They havent been taken care of.
I mean, you just take a look at European Union. They virtually cant do business. Take a look at China. Take a look at so many other places.
So we are going to finish off these trade deals. Im going to ask Sonny, Secretary of Agriculture, to say a couple of words. I might ask Bob Lighthizer to say a couple of words, and maybe Larry Kudlow. And then we will get on with our meeting, and well ask the media to head out of the room. Sonny.
Patriots.
Well, thats why I really called the farmers patriots -- because they know what Im doing. They had a group of 10 in one of the shows over the weekend, and they were farmers. And do you agree what the President is doing with China? And they all agreed. They all said, Look, we may have to take a little bit of a hit. I dont even think they will. But in the end, the country is going to be much stronger; our country is going to be much stronger.
But more importantly, theyre going to be -- everything is going to be better. Just everything is going to be better. And one of them said, You know, most importantly, the country is going to be much stronger, but were going to make much more money. Theyre going to be doing much better.
And, you know, as an example, Im working with Chuck Grassley, and with Joni, and with Deb, and -- all of us, right? Were all working together. And were working on the ethanol, and its really working out. I think its going to really work out. People have been talking about this for years. And we think were going to do something, I will say, early -- and now this is no guarantee -- but were going to raise it up to 15 percent, which makes a lot of people happy.
Were going to go to 12 months, which makes a lot of farmers very happy -- because we go from 8 months to 12 months, thats a big difference. That was always unnecessary and ridiculous.
So were going to work out something during the transition period, which is not easy, very complicated, because we have to take care of our refineries. We have to take care of a lot of other people. But were working on transition now because there will be a two-year period of time that we have a little bit of complexity while things are happening, while things are being built.
But were going to be going probably -- probably -- to 15 , and were going to be going to a 12-month period. So I think thats going to be --
Look at that big smile. All of a sudden, theres a lot of smiles.
And you know what? Its going to solve a problem. And were going to be helping also -- were going to be also helping the refineries. So the refineries are going to be able to do much better, because right now there are a lot of them that are not doing well. So we have to help the refineries. So were very close to getting that done and weve worked hard on that, Joni.
But its coming along very nicely. Could I ask Bob Lighthizer to say a few words, please?
Hes working about 23 hours a day, and he sleeps for one. Look at him. I mean, is this guy --  hes like exhausted.
Thats all right. Thats okay. Youre looking good. Go ahead.
And were starting to get much better results at the World Trade Organization, WTO, because they know were not playing games anymore. You know, were going to get the results or theyre not going to be so happy. I mean, it was set up to hurt us.
I mean, if you look at it, 25 years ago, or whatever it was, it was really set up to take advantage of the United States, as far as Im concerned. But were starting to get much better results, and that would make, I think, a lot of people very happy. Go ahead.
Good. Thank you very much, Bob. And you really are doing a great job. I appreciate it. But we want to see the end result -- because it doesnt matter what happens during the course, its the end result that counts.
I just -- while were talking about China, we are getting along very well. I think were going to do some great things. But very importantly, theyre very much helping us at the border of North Korea and theyre continuing to. And, you know, they view it as something they should do. I think its certainly very beneficial to them. Getting rid of nuclear weapons is very good for them. Good for everybody.
But they have really been a great help to us at the border of North Korea, and maybe that all plays into what were doing because I think it does. I think everything does. But perhaps thats one of the reasons that they are so helpful. Theyve been really terrific in helping us get to some kind of a settlement.
Meetings are being set up right now between myself and Kim Jong-un, who will be -- I think it will be terrific. I think were going with a lot of respect, and well see what happens. So weve come a long way. But China has really helped us at the border, and we appreciate it. Okay? Larry Kudlow.
Thank you, Larry, very much. Beautifully said. Just to finish, we have some tremendous numbers coming out from companies. We have hundreds of billions of dollars pouring back into our country from our tax cut plan where money overseas is coming in, which, Larry, you often mention and talk about. Apple, as an example, is investing $350 billion in plants -- which they dont have too many of, but they will -- and campuses and everything else.
Other companies are investing billions of dollars back in our country. So theyre bringing in billions of dollars, I would say ahead of schedule, even far ahead of schedule. And thats going to create growth and jobs and everything else.
As you know, we had 32 solar plants, and of the 32, I think 30 were closed, Larry, right? There were -- its a new industry, but they were getting absolutely killed by China and some others. And we put a tariff on those panels coming in, which were not nearly as good as the ones we make. And now we have two that are open. Can you imagine, of the 32, there were two that are -- were just about limping along and barely open.
These two are now doing very well and theyre looking to open seven, eight, nine of the plants. Same thing with washing machines. They were dumping -- if you can believe this -- washing machines all over the country. Just dumping them. And we put a 30 percent tariff on, and now washing machine plants are expanding and opening in our country.
So I just want to use tariffs judiciously but it can certainly help. The steel and aluminum industry -- 10 percent on aluminum. And you probably have seen, and I sort of thought this might happen, aluminum is down 4 percent since we put a 10 percent tariff on it. So someday, somebody is going to explain that to me. I didnt think it would be that good; I thought maybe it would go up just a little bit.
Steel, we have taken the tariff off some countries when weve been able to renegotiate deals. For instance, in South Korea, when they heard they had to pay 25 percent tariff on steel coming in, they went absolutely crazy and we made a deal. The KORUS deal is now pretty much concluded. And we really made that, I would say, Bob, largely because of the fact that they did not like the fact that they were having to pay tariffs on steel.
So weve been able to -- even the European Union, theyre not happy about the steel, and were negotiating with them. I dont know that we would be negotiating without the steel. And I say, for them to hear, I couldnt care less. They can hear it.
In some cases, people are paying tariffs and were taking in a lot of money for the country. Those tariffs are tremendous. Were taking in a lot of money. Not so bad, either.
But the tariffs have really helped us. When used properly, they really get people to the table. And thats what we want. But I want people to the table, also, for our great American farmers for the ag industry. I love those people. Were taking care of those people. And its working out really well. So thank you all very much for being here. And thank you very much. Thank you.
Were having a meeting today on Syria. Were having a number of meetings today. Well see what happens. Were obviously looking at that very closely.
And I will be leaving here. I was there, and now Ill be going back as soon as this meeting is over. But were looking very, very seriously, very closely at that whole situation. And well see what happens, folks. Well see what happens.
