Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump at Listening Session on Veterans Affairs|March 17, 2017
A special group of people. Very special to me, very important. And I want to thank you all for being here and for your work on behalf of our nations veterans, our great, great people, our veterans.
Were all united by a very common mission. We will protect those who protect us. Ive been saying that a lot over the last two years at rallies and speeches. We will protect those who protect us. And thats just starting because I think the veterans have not been treated fairly. And David and a group of brilliant, brilliant doctors and businessmen are forming a board and youve got the most talented people that Ive ever seen working with you. This is no more games going to be played at the V.A.
And I want to thank David, your secretary -- your new secretary, whos gonna be so outstanding. I think he actually passed 100-0. When I heard that vote, I said, "Where did that come from?"
Passed 100-0 for bringing your vision, experience and determination to the crucial task of reforming the V.A. and ensuring care for our returning heroes and warriors.
And tonight, Im having a major meeting with some of the people that we put on a board. Ike Perlmutter is an amazing man, a marvel -- is one of the great, great businessmen of our times. And others -- were having a meeting tonight at what we call affectionately the Southern White House, it seems to be the most convenient location.
Everybody always wants to go to the Southern White House. Are you going to be at that meeting? You heard about it, right? Its gonna be great, all about the V.A.
The V.A.s mission statement is engraved in the plaques outside its headquarters. It reads, "To care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow and his orphan." And that was stated by Abraham Lincoln. That was Lincolns pledge, called Lincolns pledge. But for too many veterans, this hasnt been their experience at all. Weve been reading horrible experiences over the years. And already, David, Im hearing its getting much better. A lot of improvements are being made and its going to change, and under my administration it will change, very important to me.
During my campaign, I outlined a detailed plan for reforming veterans care throughout the country and were working to put that plan into effect and its moving I think I can say honestly ahead of schedule. As commander-in-chief, I will not accept substandard service for our great veterans. Every member of our government is expected to do their utmost to ensure our veterans have the care that theyre so entitled to, maybe more entitled to than anybody. And that hasnt been the way they were treated. But it is the way theyre going to be treated.
So again, I want to thank you all for being here. Its a great honor. And maybe Ill ask David just to say a few words.
Well, thats great.
And unrelated, we just had a meeting with probably 12 Congressmen and it was an amazing meeting because they were all noes, would you say Mike, they were all noes or pretty much no. And after 15 minutes -- now, in all fairness, its not 15 minutes really, it was really, actually about four or five days, but after 15 minutes, they went from no to all yeses. So the health care looks like its gonna be in great shape. Its a great plan. The press doesnt give it a fair read. But Ive heard that before, what are you going to do? The fake -- fake news.
But its a great plan or I wouldnt be involved with it. I wouldnt be involved. So we have 12 noes and we have rejiggered it and weve done some great things. But the noes in every single case went to a yes. So that was a great honor. And health care looks like its really happening. Its going to be great. Obamacare is dead. Some of you folks have yourselves, you have family members that have suffered greatly under Obamacare. Its dying, its just about on its last legs.
If we did nothing, if we did absolutely nothing, Obamacare is dead. It will fail. In Tennessee, where I just left, half of the state has no insurance carrier, no carrier, its gone and theyre going to leave the other half of the state very soon. You have that in many cases. Many states are down to one and theyll end up with nothing. So Obamacare is dead. Were going to come up with a replacement thats going to be fantastic and we have no support from the Democrats. Thats why its a little -- we have to go interesting little routes. Instead of just approving it, it has to be approved in pieces and thats working out really well.
But we just got 12 very, very great people that went from no or maybe but maybe leaning to no, right, Mike? And they all have given me a commitment theyre voting for our health plan -- health care plan. So that was great.
