Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Gives Remarks at the Infrastructure Summit|June 8, 2017
Well, thank you all very much for being here. This is fantastic. In fact, what well do -- in a minute, well go around the room real quickly. I see some extra people showed up so that, frankly, we dont have too much room, Rick. Its a little tight in here.
Its a little tight, but thats okay. Great honor. and its my pleasure to welcome so many incredible governors, tribal leaders, mayors, county commissioners, and other leaders of our country to the White House Infrastructure Summit. Were doing a great job with respect to infrastructure all over, and were very proud of it. Its going to take off like a rocket ship -- moving very quickly. Together, were going to rebuild America.
Earlier this week, we announced our plan to revolutionize air traffic control. And yesterday, I traveled to Cincinnati to discuss our new vision for American infrastructure and our plans to modernize our vital inland waterways, which are so important and which are, in many cases, crumbling.
Today, were here to talk about how we will create the infrastructure of the future by partnering with the states and local governments -- of which you form a very important part, right? This is the group. And its a great group.
You are the stewards of the vast majority of our nations roads and bridges and airports. Yet, for too long, Washington has slowed down your projects and driven up your costs, and driven them up beyond anything even recognizable. Those days are over. We are going to move quickly, were going to move very, very intelligently, and were going to get the job done, under budget and ahead of schedule -- something the government doesnt hear too much.
We are already taking action to dramatically reduce the time it takes to get permits and approvals. If you want to build a highway in the United States, you currently have to obtain approvals, generally speaking, on average, 16. And usually, 10 federal agencies are involved. Its a process that can take well over 10 years just to get the approvals. Were not talking about building, were talking about just getting the approvals. So we want to streamline that process, and we think we can get it down to a number thats closer to two years, and maybe even less than that. That would be a big, big difference.
In addition to reforming our broken permitting system, we want to partner with state and local governments to better meet the needs of our citizens. My budget proposal includes a massive investment in new federal support for infrastructure. These dollars will be matched by significant private, state, and local dollars for maximum efficiency and accountability.
Already, many of you are pioneering innovative solutions for your citizens and youre already looking at developments and working with us. To take just one example, in Florida, Governor Rick Scott -- hello, Rick -- has partnered with private sector investors -- and hes really been partnering a lot -- to build projects such as the I-4 Ultimate Project, which has been called "the largest infrastructure project in state history." Thats Florida -- big state. Its going to be a great project.
Because of their innovation approach and because of the way they went about getting it and getting the approvals, the project is anticipated to be completed 17 years earlier than it would have through more traditional funding methods.
These are the kind of projects we want to see all across the country. Working together, Im confident that we can translate every taxpayer dollar into new pavement on our streets, new locks and new dams, new pipes for our water -- and I will tell you were just going to have a much better, more modern, more acceptable infrastructure. We want to bring it to the top of the world.
Weve gone way down in the list. If you look worldwide, we have gone way, way down. We want to go back to the top. We used to be at the top every year, routinely. And now weve gone down quite a bit. So I dont like that, you dont like that, and were going to change it.
I just want to again say its an honor to have you here. Youre really the stewards of the great cities and the great states and the great areas and communities, and youre going to be very important to what were going with infrastructure.
