Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Chicago, IL|September 28, 2016
All right. Thank you, everybody, very much. A great honor. Please sit down.
Thank you. So we have a very interesting race. Weve had some amazing days. I loved the debate.
I love the process. Something very beautiful about this process. The American way, but its a lot of different ways. But theres nothing like what were going through.
Its very exciting. And to have so many Polish Americans on my side. Been friends of mine for many years. Ive had so many friends, theyve been so loyal to me, from Poland.
Some living in Poland now, but mostly from Poland. And the Polish people are great people. These are great people. And if I get elected, believe me, we take care of all of our people, all of our people.
But we do have a very, very special place because Polish Americans, what youve done for this country is really incredible. And I dont think, frankly, that people know the great sacrifices that youve gone through. And Frank and the whole group have done an incredible job. Even just coming to this building and seeing how well organized everything is, how beautiful it is, how clean, how you open it up to the community, Frank.
Its amazing. So I just want to congratulate you, and I want to thank you. Thank you.  I just met many of your leaders and representatives, and your press.
And I thought Id say a few words. I wrote down a few words about Poland and my thoughts on Poland, and also on whats happening with respect to the Poland Americans, and I think itll take a second. And Ill read it off a little bit to you, because its very important. To me, its very important.
Its an unbelievably important community. So Im honored to be here with the Polish American Congress. And I pledge to you a Trump Administration will be a true friend to Poland and to all Polish Americans. And I have to tell you... Applause] ... and I dont think you people will be insulted to say -- and if I say, will be a friend to everybody. Were going to be friendly to everybody. You know, you heard about the deplorables, right? This is going to be one of those devo, but were going to be a friend to everybody.
And if they dont like me, they will end up liking me, all right? Ill be a friend even when they dont like me, but they will end up liking me when we produce -- because we have politicians that dont produce. Its very simple. And Poland has been such an incredible friend to America. And since our founding, if you look, its been one of our great, great relationships, and so important.
A strong ally for freedom. During the Cold War, Poland kept the flame of freedom under Communist oppression. It was really -- it was a beacon. And Poland provided 28,000 troops in total over the years to assist the United States in Afghanistan.
Thats a lot of troops, 28,000 troops for Afghanistan and Iraq, in the hardest-fought regions. And trip -- plenty of suffering, plenty of suffering. One of the things I wanted to do is mention your very brilliant head of the Chamber of Commerce, Anna, who is the -- stand up, Anna. Is very important... Applause] ... who is going to Poland tomorrow, but she said, Mr. Trump So were going to make sure that when people come into the country, or when people are already in the country, theyre going to be able to open their business. And also were cutting taxes massively.
The thing that amazes me is that, if you would have told me this, I wouldnt have thought -- you know, were cutting business tax tremendously for small business, and for all business because we want jobs. Were going to have a job growth like weve never seen. Im very good for jobs. In fact, I will be the greatest president for jobs that God ever created, I can tell you. Applause] Im very strong on jobs, and the economy. I built a great -- I built a great, great company, and some of the most incredible assets, real estate assets, anywhere in the world. And some other assets, but -- and I understand putting people to work. And if you would have told me this would have happened, I think the mayor of New York, Rudy, who has been so incredible as a supporter.
Weve had such great support, but Rudys been really out there. He was a great mayor. I think Rudy would understand this very well. Some of the people in the audience would.
So, were doing this massive tax cut, and yet, in my opinion, almost 100 percent of the time, people that want businesses and want to expand businesses or start new businesses are much more excited about the regulations being cut, because the regulations are making it absolutely imposs -- but the taxes are terrible, because theyre so high. Theyre no onerous that they really make it very difficult. But I think that people are more excited about the massive cutting of regulations that were going to do. And you need some regulation, for safety, for environment, you need some regulation.
But were going to be cutting tremendous amounts of red tape and regulation. And I would never have thought that they were more impressed with that, that they consider that to be more important than the cutting of taxes, because in one case, you know the kind of money were talking about. In the other case, you know, its a little amorphous. You dont know.
But theyre very excited. So, Anna, we will take care of that situation. And I think you and all of the people that youre representing would be very happy, OK?  Now, as president, I will honor Polands sacrifices for freedom. Were committed to a strong Poland, very committed, totally committed, and a strong Eastern Europe, as a bulwark for security and liberty.
Campaigning for his wife, Bill Clinton attacked Poland, saying, Democracy is too much trouble So the -- Bill Clinton made that statement. And he talked about -- for Poland. And all of the time, Im talking about, we cant allow people to come into this country from other parts of the world that we dont know who they are, where they come from, what their intentions are, and all you have to do is take a look at what happened, whether its in New York or whether its in San Bernardino or whether its in Orlando or, frankly, you can go outside of the country very nicely, also. Paris and Nice, and all of the different places.
Germany, look whats happening in Germany. Its a disaster. And yet Bill Clinton will make a horrible statement or like that, concerning Poland. So Poland is one of the only five NATO nations, countries, thats actually paying 2 percent of GDP to provide for their defense, which is very interesting, because I -- Ive been talking about it.
You know, so many of them are delinquent. Theyre in default, essentially, but theyre delinquent. Poland is up to date. And what happened, as soon as I walked in, the whole group said, Were up to date Thats it.
They want to be proud.  So we want NATO to be strong, which means we want more countries to follow the example of Poland. If every country in NATO made the same contributions as Poland, all of our allies would be more secure. And people would feel better, even better, about NATO.
NATO is very important, but theyd feel better about it. Well work with Poland on strengthening NATO when I am President. We will strengthen NATO, and were going to bring NATO and get NATO involved with terrorism. As you remember, six or seven months ago when I was asked by a reporter about, what do I think about NATO, I said its obsolete because it doesnt cover terror.
And there was a big scream. Oh And then a few months after that, on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, and this was probably four or five months ago, they announced theyre starting a new terrorism division, which will be run by a very good person, actually. And they didnt give me a lot of credit for that, but they did put my name in the article, and they did say that, you know, I brought it up. But I do believe if I didnt bring it up, and bring it up very strongly and loudly, they would not have started it.
But I think its a great thing that they did. The contributions of the Polish people to America have enriched every aspect of our lives, and will be honored if I am in the White House. The Polish people will be honored. Remember that.
They deserve it.  So, Im asking for your vote. I never thought Id be saying that. Ive been a businessman.
Can you believe? Been watching these guys all their lives. Im asking, do you know the differences, and they do nothing for you. They -- you know, were going to make things good. Were going to make America great again.
But Im asking for your vote. And Im asking for, very importantly, your friendship and your partnership. Were going to work together, and were going to start now. Were going to have a victory in November.
Its going to be a tremendous victory. And were going to have a Trump administration thats going to get things done, thats going to lower taxes. Hillary Clinton, who I happen to believe is grossly incompetent, by the way. I just feel like shes grossly incompetent. Applause] But Hillary Clinton is going to increase taxes. And -- well, she didnt pass her bar exam in Washington, DC, and a lot of people dont know that. But I happen to believe that shell be very, very bad for our country. I think it would be worse than four more years of Obama.
I think it would actually be worse. And it wont be great for the people that youre representing, but most importantly, it wont be great for the people of our country, because we have a chance to really make America great again. We have a chance to, I think, make America greater than ever before. And whether its tax, whether its trade, whether its regulation, theres so many different things that were going to do, but were going to spur growth and were going to spur growth in the right direction, not in the wrong direction.
So, I just want to thank all of the folks that I met today, and all of your leadership. And I will tell you, I will never let you down. It will be an amazing thing thats going to happen on November 8th. You know, when I was right in the middle of Brexit, because I was in Europe, and I have a lot of property in Europe.
I own a lot of great property in Europe. And they asked me the question. They said, Mr. Trump ...
I actually think it -- I actually think because when I heard that wise, I told two of the newspapers over there, I said, Is he really over here?" He said Anyway, that was two days before, and everybody printed out, Trump is totally saying that And now theyre calling me Mr. Brexit. Because in a way were very similar to what happened over there. We want our independence back.
We want our freedom back. We dont want to take people into our country that we dont want. We dont want to take people into our country that possibly have very bad intentions. We dont want to take our --- our la -- I mean, we have so many problems.
We owe almost $20 trillion. Its doubled under President Obamas term. Twenty trillion dollars. So over 200 years, we developed debt.
In seven and a half years, by the time he gets out of office, it will more than have doubled. And what have we gotten for it? Nothing. We have roads that are collapsing, we have highways and bridges and tunnels that are in a horrible state of repair. We have hospitals and schools that are disastrous.
And our airports are third world. You go to Dubai and Qatar, and you go to China and different places, you see airports that are the most incredible things that youve ever seen. You come into LaGuardia in New York, you come into Kennedy, you come into LAX, you come into Newark Airport, these are like third world airports with third world equipment. And this is the United States.
Well, its going to end. We spend $6 trillion, $6 trillion through gross incompetence. We spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, and think of it. Six trillion.
We could have rebuilt our country twice. We built things over there that we dont build for our own country, and then its bombed and destroyed. So were going to run things differently. Were going to be tough.
We have a very depleted military. We have to build up our military again. Well have to build up our military, but its going to be something, I think, thats going to be very beautiful and very good, and its going to be great for all people, including my really great Polish American friends. So I just want to leave it by saying Im with you.
I agree with you. There was a room full of incredible representatives, and as they were talking Im saying, You dont have to sell me." Everything youre talking about. I mean And the great thing about everything that took place in that meeting that we just had is that you love this country. You love our country.
You want whats good for our country. And, so were all on the same ....  Were all in the same bag.  So, I just want to thank you.
I want to thank your leadership. I want to thank everybody in this room. I hope that I get every single Polish American vote in this country. And if anybodys on vacation, come back immediately. Applause] One thing about the Polish people, when they go on vacation, they usually go to Poland, right?  Its true. I know. They go to Poland. They dont go elsewhere.
So get them back. But its really been a great honor. And thank you all very much. Thank you.
