Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Redondo Beach, CA|June 7, 2016
Thank you very much. Hello. Id like to begin by thanking the people of Montana, South Dakota, New Mexico, New Jersey, and California. We had some big, big days and we have some big numbers coming in. Very big numbers. Im truly honored by your support. Together, we accomplished what nobody thought was absolutely possible, and you know what that is, were only getting started and its gonna be beautiful.
Remember that.
Tonight we closed one chapter in history and we begin another. Our campaign received more primary votes than any GOP campaign in history. No matter who it is, no matter who they are. We received more votes.
This is -- great feeling, thats a great feeling. This is not a testament to me, but a testament to all of the people who believed real change, not Obama-change, but real change is possible. Youve given me the honor, to lead the Republican Party to victory, this fall. Were gonna do it. Were gonna do it, folks.
Were gonna do it.
I understand the responsibility of carrying the medal, and I will never ever let you down. Too much work, too many people, blood, sweat and tears, never gonna let you down. I will make you proud of your party and our movement and thats what it is as movement.
Recent polls have shown, that Im beating Hillary Clinton and with all of her many problems, and the tremendous mistakes that sheve made and she has made tremendous mistakes. We expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantially.
To everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, I want to thank you. I want to thank you very, very much. To those who voted for someone else, in either party, I will work hard to earn your support, and I will work very hard to earn that support. To all of those Bernie Sanders voters, who have been left out in the cold, by a rigged system of superdelegates, we welcome you with open arms.
Believe me.
And by the way, the terrible trade deals that Bernie was so vehemently against, and hes right on that, will be taken care of far better than anyone ever thought possible, and thats what I do. We are going to have fantastic trade deals. Were going to start making money and bringing in jobs.
Now, I know some people say Im too much of a fighter. My preference is always peace, however, and Ive shown that. Ive shown that for a long time. Ive built an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit all parties involved. Always. My goal is always, again, to bring people together, but if Im forced to fight for something I really care about, I will never ever back down, and our country will never ever back down.
Thank you. Ive fought for my family. I fought for my business. I fought for my employees and now Im going to fight for you, the American people. like nobody has ever fought before. And Im not a politician fighting, Im me, youre gonna see some real, good things happen.
Just remember this: Im going to be your champion. Im going to be Americas champion. Because, you see, this election isnt about Republican or Democrat, its about who runs this country, the special interests or the people, and I mean the American people. Every election year, politicians promise change.
Obama promised change and it didnt work out too well, and every year they fail to deliver.
Why would politicians want to change a system thats totally rigged in order to keep them in power? Thats what theyre doing, folks. Why would politicians want to change a system thats made them and their friends very, very wealthy. I beat a rigged system by winning with overwhelming support, the only way you could have done it. Landslides all over the country with every demographic on track to win 37 primary caucus victories in a field that began with 17 very talented people.
After years of disappointment, theres one thing we all have learned, we cant fix the rigged system by relying on very and -- and I mean this so, so strongly, on the very people who rigged it, and they rigged it. And do not ever think anything differently. We cant solve our problems by counting on the politicians who created our problems.
The Clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form for themselves.
Theyve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling access, selling favors, selling government contracts, and I mean hundreds of millions of dollars. Secretary Clinton, even did all of the work, on a totally illegal private server, something that how shes getting away with this, folks, nobody understands.
Designed to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the security of the entire country at risk, and a president in a corrupt system, is totally protecting her. Not right.
I am going to give a major speech on -- probably, Monday of next week, and were going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons. I think youre gonna find it very informative and very, very interesting. I wonder if the press will want to attend, who knows?
Hillary Clinton turned the State Department into her private hedge fund. The Russians, the Saudis, the Chinese. All gave money to Bill and Hillary and got favorable treatment in return. Its a sad day in America when foreign governments with deep pockets have more influence in our own country than our great citizens.
I didnt need to do this, its not easy, believe me, I didnt need to do it, but I felt I had to give back to our wonderful country, which has been so good to me and to my family.
Ive traveled to many of our states and seen the suffering in peoples eyes. I visited communities in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Indiana, and Ohio. whose manufacturing jobs and they literally -- these jobs have virtually disappeared. An embarrassment to our country, and its horrible.
Ive embraced the victims of illegal immigration. Moms and dads who have had to bury their own children because of people that shouldnt have been in the country. Remember it, folks, remember it. I visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools. Ive seen our dilapidated airports, highways, bridges, and Ive compared them to other countries, where we see facilities so far superior to ours, its really not to be believed.
Hard to imagine whats happened to our country.
America is getting taken apart piece by piece. Off -- auctioned off and just rapidly auctioned off to the highest bidder. Were broke, were broke. We are $19 trillion, going quickly to $21 trillion. Our infrastructure is a disaster. Our schools are failing, crime is rising, people are scared. The last thing we need is Hillary Clinton in the White House or an extension of the Obama disaster.
What a crowd, what a crowd. Thank you, all, very much.
We love our country, we love our country. But we can turn this all around, were going to do it by putting America first. That commitment is the foundation for change thats been missing and has been missing for a long time.
Its important to understand what America First means. It means, on foreign policy, we will never enter into any conflict, unless it makes us safer as a nation. It has to make us safer as a nation. This is -- this is the opposite of Hillarys foreign policy, which invaded Libya, destabilized Iraq, unleashed ISIS, and through Syria into chaos and created the mass migration, which is wreaking havoc all over the world.
And while putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons and making them a dominant power in the Middle East. And they are dominant, and we have made them that way, folks, we have made them that way. Better hope Im president.
On trade. America First means the American worker will have his or her job protected from unfair foreign competition. Whats happening there is absolutely a disgrace. No PPP. Youre right about that. So -- and you mean no PP.
We are going -- and remember this, we are only going to have great trade deals, OK. We are only going to have that. Were not going to approve as somebody just said, the trans-pacific partnership, which is a disaster, a disaster for our country, almost as bad as NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, which is just stripped our country of our factories and our manufacturing and moved them to other places, in particular, Mexico.
If its not a great deal for our country, we will not sign it. Its got to be great for our country, for our community, for everybody in here, because, believe me, we are all suffering and were suffering big league and its getting worse. On energy policy, America First means opening up Americas great potential to bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers, including our wonderful and hard-working miners.
Who have been absolutely totally mistreated, by this administration.
On economic policy, America First means having tax and regulatory policies that keep jobs and wealth in the United States. Substantially lowering taxes for middle-class Americans and businesses, likewise, regulation, which is strangling our economy, which would be brought down from its present insane level, we will make it very, very good for our companies, for our small businesses, and for people, that want to survive, and do well in our country.
On immigration policy, America first means protecting the jobs, wages, and security of American workers, whether first or 10th generation. No matter who you are, were gonna protect your job. Because let me tell you, our jobs are being stripped from our country like were babies.
The beauty of America First is that brings us all together. Every American worker of every background is entitled to the same benefits, protections, and rights, and privileges. Its got to be that way. Now, the people in charge say things cant change. Im here today to tell you that we have to change. We have no choice, we have to change.
Were going to put -- Thank you.
Were going to put America back to work. Were gonna make our own products. Were gonna put America back to work. Were going to rebuild our inner cities, which are absolutely a shame and so sad. Could take care of our African-American people that have been mistreated for so long. Were going to make you and your family safe, secure, and prosperous.
Prosperous again.
