Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Cincinnati, OH|October 13, 2016
Theres a lot of people.
I worked in Cincinnati and I love Cincinnati, that I can tell you.
Love it.
Very, very special place to be.
Thank you, everybody. Wow, what a turn out this is. This is big stuff.
And a poll just came out, Wall Street Journal, NBC were leading Ohio by one or two points, but were gonna win Ohio.
We are going to win Ohio.
Thank you, everybody.
I gave a speech earlier today on the lies, corruption and false accusations of the crooked Hillary Clinton campaign.
And the main stream media, which they control and use quite viciously. They want to distract us from WikiLeaks -- its been amazing whats coming out on WikiLeaks.
They want to keep us from talking about the issues. We will not let that happen, were going to talk about the real issues which is jobs and illegal immigration, and our depleted military, and taking care of our vets...
... and our Second Amendment and our Supreme Court judges...
... and the repeal and replacement of Obamacare -- dont forget that.
Which is a disaster.
Every day between now and the election, were going to talk about our plans to make America great again.
In 26 days, were going to defeat the corrupt establishment and we are going to save the United States of America. We are going to save the United States.
And we are going to show the whole entire beautiful world how much we love our country.
Its going to be again America first. Its been a long time. America first.
USA! USA! USA!
Twenty-one thousand people tonight. Can you believe  21,000.
And youve got 7,000 people outside trying to get in but theyre not going to make it, I guess.
Were going to renegotiate our absolutely terrible trade deals, reduce surging crime, cut taxes and regulation, lift the restrictions on American energy, end Common Core...
... reduce the cost of college, make childcare more affordable and repeal and replace that horrible thing, the so-called Affordable Care Act, Obamacare, which is not affordable at all.
And the governor of Minnesota, just minutes ago announced that the Affordable Care Act is not affordable. And Bill Clinton admitted the other day that its a crazy system, and Ive been saying this for years and Bill Clinton suffered last week. He made that statement and he actually told the truth. He had a rough evening, I want to tell you that.
Ive been talking about how its not going to work before it was even passed. And it was a past -- if you remember -- it was passed with a big lie. Twenty-eight times, keep your plan, keep your doctor. Over and over and over and we have a real mess on our hands where the cost is going up 72 percent, 78 percent. Next year it will be over 100 percent. Its a disaster. Weve got to repeal it, replace it. Its no good. Our president is incompetent, believe me, he is incompetent.
And every time I see him lately, hes campaigning for crooked Hillary. He shouldnt be campaigning. He ought to be working on the border; he ought to be working on illegal immigration; he ought to be working on bringing our jobs back from Mexico and all of these places that have taken our jobs.
He is a disaster. Very importantly, were going to get our economy growing again, and growing fast.
My economic agenda can be send -- and you know this, and I think youve heard this -- We want an agenda that really is represented by what three words? Jobs, jobs, jobs and people arent going to take our jobs, and countries are no longer going to be taking our jobs. There will be consequences, there will be a price to pay.
And one of the hardest hit has been the state of Ohio. Manufacturing jobs, your steel jobs, your miners are going to be protected, your miners are going back to work. That I can tell you.
This election is a simple choice. Its a choice between putting our faith in failed politicians and she is a failed politician. Look at what shes done. Everything she touches -- Im going to be very nice -- turns bad.
See, Ive learned. Or putting our faith in you the American people, which is what were going to do. This is a great movement that weve created together. A movement like has never been seen in this country. A movement like theyve never, ever seen in this country.
Never, ever seen anything like this.
And on November 8th, were all going out to vote.
And were going to have a tremendous victory. I think far greater than some people are even predicting. Because were tired of corruption and were tired or incompetence. And thats what you get, nobody wants four more years of Obama. And with Hillary Clinton it will even be worse.
The Hillary Clinton documents released by WikiLeaks just a little while ago. Make it more clear than ever just how much is at stake on November 8th. The corruption of the Clintons knows no limits and weve known that for a long time. Today WikiLeaks released new e- mails from early 2015 from Clinton campaign staffers discussing how friendly Hillary was with Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Im shocked to hear that.
This was only months prior to the investigation of her illegal server. And the e-mail server that gave foreign governments access to our confidential information. Think of this, this comes on the heels of the disclosure -- and you saw this disclosure -- said Clinton campaign was colluding with the State Department over the release of her e-mails, and revelations that the Clinton campaign was colluding with Obamas Department of Justice, over the investigation into Hillarys secret server.
There is never been anything like whats happening in our country. Weve never had a thing like this before, and its a disgrace and they ought to be ashamed of themselves. And like I took Hillary and told Hillary the other day, at the debate -- which we did win quite easily I will say.
Look, shes highly overrated, believe me. You know she couldnt pass her bar exam in Washington, D.C. Couldnt pass it. She failed. Shes an overrated person.
How about during the debate? Im standing there at my lectern, not moving, and she walks in front of me. Right? She walks in front of me, and she answers the question then she walks right back, right in front of me, and the next day I read in the newspapers, that I invaded her space. Do you believe this? Me?
But, we have another debate coming up and well do the same to her.
Yesterday new disclosures were made showing again how Hillary Clintons pay for play works. In 2010, Saudi Arabia was looking to buy arms from the United States. In order to get the approval, Clintons State Department had to sign off and they couldnt get it. So what happened? What did Saudi Arabia do? They paid Bill Clinton a fortune to do a speech. Later that year, Clintons State Department signed off on arm deals between the United States and Saudi Arabia, shocking, shocking.
Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 e-mails, after, not before -- before would be bad -- after is criminal, its criminal. After a Congressional subpoena then made 13 iPhones disappear some with a hammer. Has anybody used a hammer on their iPhone?
No!
He did. What business are you in? I dont want to ask. I dont want to know.
She did that to cover up her crimes. The WikiLeaks documents show how the media conspires and collaborates with Clinton campaign, including giving the questions and answers to Hillary Clinton before a debate.
I dont get them, I want them. Im angry at the Republicans, they dont get me the answers and the questions. The documents show how the DNC honestly betrayed Bernie Sanders. Poor Bernie, he sold out. If he wouldnt have sold out to the devil, he would have gone down in political history as quite an important man, but he sold out and his people are not happy. And now with all of these e-mails that theyre finding and all of these documents, its not a pretty picture for Bernie. Looks bad -- looks bad. They really did rig the system on Bernie Sanders, Ill tell you, they rigged the system.
The documents also show the Clinton campaign says she has no core. She has no message. What are we going to do? Shes got no message. I have a message. You know what the message is? Make American great again.
Its a good message, and thats what were doing this for. I didnt need this folks, believe me. I built a great company, I was having a lot of fun, this isnt fun. You know, many of the people, although I must say, sort of is fun. But, many of the people in this room were making more money 18 years ago than they are now and theyre working harder now. And in many cases, you have two jobs. So, youre working harder, youre older, and youre making less. But, Im older and Im working harder also. So, I dont feel bad for anybody in the room.
Were all in the same boat. But, its going to pay off because were going to turn our country around.
Were going to turn our country around.
What Hillary  said, is the hundreds of billions of dollars she raised from Wall Street special interests. In fact, the e-mails show, Hillary has a private position for Wall Street, and a public position, a fraud, for the voters. She says this to Wall Street, she says this to the voters. The e-mails also reveal how the Clintons ripped off the wonderful people of Haiti. Doling out favors with their friends and special interests, so true.
Americans have had it with the years and decades of Clinton corruption. And I will tell you, what happened with the Attorney General of the United States  airplane in Arizona. When he was going to be playing golf, very hot. I dont think he was going to be playing golf. Just happened to meet her, happened to be on the tarmac, said, lets say hello. Stayed for 39 minutes and talked about golf and his grandchildren. He didnt talk about golf and he didnt talk about his grandchildren, unless it was a minute of two.
I would think he probably talked about appointing her as the Attorney General if Hillary wins this election, and youre not allowed to do that. And they were very embarrassed. And they thought it would be something where they could sneak on and sneak off. And Ive had a plane for a long time, Ive never had anybody stop it, get on, come off, on the tarmac. Doesnt happen. And then you have the Director of the FBI and some of the greatest people in the world...
... some of the greatest people of -- really in our country. Some of the great people are in the FBI and based on what I read and see and hear, they are so angry at what took place. Where they caught her cold. She is a corrupt person. She should not be allowed to run for the presidency. Shes a corrupt person.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
She should be locked up. She should.
And if I win, I am going to ask my Attorney General to appoint a special prosecutor to look into her crimes, because what she did is a disgrace to the United States of America.
And were also going to look in to the investigation. In other words, were going to investigate the investigation, because what happened is a disgrace. Other people, their lives have been destroyed for doing so much less and everybody knows it. You know when you delete something or when you dont provide the documents requested, after -- after you get a subpoena from the United States Congress. Thats a criminal act. That alone -- forget about all of the other things which are even worse in many ways, but that alone is a criminal act.
And now as you heard last week, two boxes of information and e- mails are missing, as of last week. What are we doing folks? What are we doing? What are we living with? What are we living with?
This will finally be the year where the American people can say enough is enough.
The Clintons are the past but, we are going to be together a very bright future.
The new e-mails also show members of the Clinton team, viciously attacking Catholics and evangelicals.
True.
Its just the latest evidence of the hatred that the Clinton campaign has for faithful people in our country. Faithful Americans. Hillary Clinton thinks youre deplorable and irredeemable -- and irredeemable might be worse, it means you cant help yourself. I call you hard working American patriots, and together we are going to save our country with the smartest, with the best. Were going to unify our country.
These e-mails also reveal that Clinton believes in global governance, and unlimited immigration into our country.
Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, Hillary Clinton said, my dream is a hemispheric common market. There go your jobs, the rest of your jobs. With open trade and open borders, OK? She didnt want to hear that, she didnt want that to get out. Behind closed doors, when she thought no one was listening, she pledged to dissolve the borders of the United States of America. Its whats happening folks, thats what happening.
We are going to have strong borders. We are going to have a great wall.
Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!
And who is going to pay for that wall?
Mexico!
100 percent. They dont know it yet, but that doesnt matter. No, the Mexicos fine. I was there two months ago, I met with the President of Mexico, very good person. And you know what, were going to have a great relationship with Mexico. But, right now, their leaders are to smart for our leaders. We have massive trade deficits with Mexico. They beat us at the border, they beat us with trade. We have massive trade deficits with China. They make our products and other countries. We dont make things anymore, essentially. But, were going to start making things again. Were going to start making things again.
Were going to make them in Ohio, believe me. Were going to make them in Ohio.
Hillary wants to end forever the American independence that our soldiers fought and died for to keep and protect us. Either we win this election or we lose our country, and thats whats happening. Thats your choice, its as simple as that. A Trump administration will secure and defend our borders.
Hillary is so radical on immigration as Secretary of State, she refused to make foreign countries take back their criminal aliens. I dont know if you know whats gone on. They would catch a murderer; they would catch a drug lord; they would catch some bad people, top gang members. Theyd bring them back into their countries, the countries which say, very intelligently, we dont want them. So, wed bring them back, she would put no pressure on those countries. Wed bring them back and in many cases we just put them right back on our streets, where they reeked havoc. reeked havoc.
I will get them over there and theyre not coming back, I promise you that. Promise you that -- promise you that.
One such killer who was set free on Hillarys watch went on to kill a young American girl named Casey Chadwick. The killer who had already been convicted for shooting a girl in the head, should have been sent home and should have never been here in the first place. Instead, he was set free, went on a rampage and murdered Casey. Hillary Clinton should be ashamed, she should be ashamed.
She also wants to increase Syrian refugees coming in to our country by 550 percent.
This -- even though, she admitted in private according to WikiLeaks, just the other day. That she knows terrorists are trying to infiltrate the refugee program which they absolutely are.
Hillary support for open borders with the Middle East, will give us the same problems as France. All you have to do is look on and see whats happening with Germany and so many other countries. With the multi-generational terrorism embedded in our communities all over -- all over the world, and all over our country. So, let me state this as clearly and as nicely as I can. I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
At the same time, were going to completely rebuild our very depleted military. That includes building a state of the art missile defense system which we need, its time.
When it comes to keeping America safe, I believe in three very important words and we dont have it now. its called peace through strength.
But, to be a strong country we must also be a rich country. Sounds crass, but weve got to be a rich country. Right now were a poor country, were a deader nation. At the center of our economic revival, well be fixing our terrible, horrible, incompetently negotiated trade deals.
In our country, 47 million Americans are in poverty and 45 million Americans are on food stamps, amazing right? In this day and age. This is the legacy of President Obama and Hillary Clinton. No state has been hurt worse by our trade deals than the state of Ohio. Im going to bring back your jobs. Youre going to have big expansion of your existing companies. And no more companies are going to leave the state of Ohio without there being serious economic consequence for that company.
The state of Ohio has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton and supported heavily by Hillary Clinton. Hillarys South Korea deal also cost the United States another 100,000 jobs. And do you remember when Hillary Clinton ran for the Senate in New York? She said she was going to bring back 200,000 jobs to upstate New York, guess what? More and more and more companies left, they went to Mexico and other places. She did nothing but talk and thats all shes doing now when she runs for President. She doesnt have the strength, she doesnt have the aptitude, she doesnt have what it takes if were going to be a great country again. That I can tell you 100 percent.
And you know, when shes over in China. If she goes down in Tiananmen Square, theyll just leave her there, theyre tough people. Theres just going to leave her there. Theyre not going to help her up. Theyll say let her come up when shes ready, these are tough people. Since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed deal. Now listen to this, 70,000 factories, I thought they meant 500,700,7,000, 70,000 factories have shut down or left the United States of America. 70,000.
Thats 15 factories closing a day on average in our country, going to other places. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world and it comes from our country and goes to many others. In particular, China, Mexico, Japan, but plenty of others. Companies like Carrier, General Electric, Motorola, Mattel, Fiat, Chrysler and so many others are moving their jobs to Mexico. And now, Ford just announced, its moving all of its small car production to Mexico also, not good -- not good.
And I will tell you this, if I win, when Ford, when Carrier, when these companies announce that they want to leave, fire all of their American workers, and go to Mexico. And in the case of Ford, build a $2 million plant. I will tell you whats going to happen. We will tell them congratulations, enjoy your new plant. But, every time you make an air conditioning unit, or a small car, or a big car, or a big truck and you want to send it into the United States. Youre going to have a 35 percent tax to pay at our now strong border.
And theyll never move folks, theyll never move. And if they do move, thats OK too because were going to make a fortune.
Now a lot of politicians arent smart enough to understand that. And many do understand it but, theyre taking care of the companies that are moving, its corruption. But, they will not move and the ones that do move will pay a big price. But, when they hear this, theyre not moving, its very simple. And in Cleveland right now, and throughout Ohio, you have companies negotiating to move. Some of you work for those companies. And many of the people that work at those companies are here now. And you dont even know the owners and the leaders of the companies are negotiating. But, with me, you dont have to worry about it because we will make it economically very difficult for them to leave the United States, believe me, believe me. So, you dont have to worry about it.
If I win, day one, were going to announce our plans to totally renegotiate the worst trade deal ever made, NAFTA.
If we dont get what we want in that renegotiation, we will leave NAFTA and start over and get ultimately a much, much better trade deal.
We will also stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The deal Hillary Clinton lied about during the debate when she called it the gold standard. And during the debate  never said that, she lied. She lied, and she lied about the line in the sand. Remember she said, no I never said that. I wasnt Secretary of State when Obama made that stupid pledge, line in the sand that he didnt honor.
Just like some people didnt honor the pledge to Donald Trump when we all ran for the Republican nomination. There were a few people that did not honor the pledge.
I would have honored my pledge. But, some people lost so badly, theyll never forget it. So, I guess they couldnt handle it. We are going to start making things again in America. We are going to have Apple and many companies like Apple, start making their iPhones and their products in the United States not in Vietnam and China and every place but here.
As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, were going to lower our business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent. Right now were the highest in the world, were going to be one of the lowest.
Our businesses are being forced out, we cant let it happen. Wages will rise, jobs will return, and factories will come rushing onto our shore. Were also going to fix our inner cities and help African-American and Hispanic Americans who are being treated very, very unfairly.
Forty-five percent of African-American youth live in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth dont have jobs. More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January 1st, a very short period of time. Its like a war zone. To those African- Americans suffering in our country, where in the inner cities, you have no jobs, horrible education. And you often times get shot just walking down the street to buy a loaf of bread. I say this, what the hell do you have to lose? Vote for Donald Trump, I will fix it -- I will fix it.
Theyve been run by these Democrats like Hillary for over 100 years in some cases unbroken. I will fight harder for you than anyone has ever fought before. Nobody will fight like Im going to fight for you.
But, Im also going to fight to help millions of Hispanics who are trapped in poverty also. That includes school choice, so important. For every low income African-American and Hispanic child in this nation, disadvantaged children will be able to attend the public/private charter or magnet school of their choice. Here are some of the more amazing things we are going to do for our country, starting in 2017. Wont this be nice? Youve got to get out and vote -- youve got to get out and vote. Ohios so important. Were going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.
Were going to protect our internet system. Were going to defend religious liberty.
Protect free speech on college campuses. Rebuild our depleted military and take care of our great veterans that we love and cherish.
Repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare. Were going to save our Second Amendment folks. Were going to save it.
The National Rifle Association, NRA gave me the earliest endorsement in their history. Weve got to save our Second Amendment. Because they are doing numbers to your Second Amendment that are not good and are very unfair and are not what our founders had in mind. So, think about your Second Amendment, so important. Were going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
You have 26 days to make every dream youve ever dreamed for your country and for your children and for your grandchildren to come true. I honestly believe this is the last chance well ever get -- not going to happen again. This is a movement like they have never, ever seen before. The media, the press is going absolutely crazy. They dont know what to do -- they dont know what to do.
They dont know what to do. You look at this place, they dont know what to do. On November 8th, the arrogance of Washington, D.C. will come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter and the American worker.
We are going to replace our failed and incompetent leadership in Washington, that has betrayed you, squandered your wealth and sold out our country and our jobs.
Its time for us to embrace the greatness of our country and the greatness of our future.
Im asking all Americans, Republicans, Independents and even Democrats to join us in our campaign and thats whats happening folks. You look at it and you see. You have all over the yards, all over Ohio and lots of other states. Trump signs, Trump-Pence, Trump- Pence, and by the way, Mike Pence, great guy, great job, a great pick.
Were going to give our government back to the American people.
I am going to fight for every citizen of every background, from every stretch of this nation. And I am going to fight to bring us all together. We are a divided country right now. All together as Americans, were going to love each other.
We are not going to be divided for much longer. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.
You are going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. And by the way, is there any place better to be anywhere in the world or safer to be than a Trump rally. We love each other.
Youre going to remember this evening. This is a movement like has never been seen in this country before. Were going to make history together. Youre going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most important vote that youve ever cast, for anyone, at anytime. Because that is when our country started turning around and being great again.
A vote for me is a vote for you and its a vote for change which we need, change, change.
Once again we are going to have a government of, by and for the people. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
