Donald Trump|Interview: Chris Wallace Interviews Donald Trump for Fox News at The White House|November 18, 2018
Thank you Chris, very much.
Right.
Right.
Its very light, its fake news, its disgusting fake news. I read a front page story in the Washington Post, they never even called me, nobody ever calls me. You know, they hear -- I dont even think they have sources I think they just make it up like its fiction. And I will tell you Im extremely upbeat, the White House is running like a well-oiled machine, its doing really well, I have great people.
I will make some changes but not very many. Im very happy with my cabinet, other than, you know a couple of exceptions and even there Im not unhappy. And I will tell you that its so wrong, the reporting about me is so wrong. Im loving what Im doing, I did well in France, I did have a problem where I wasnt able to go to a cemetery because the Secret Service would not let me do it.
No, but Im just saying the Secret Service would not let me do it and they made it a big deal.
Well I didnt know the advisor well, really, and I know they had a lot of problem. My wife did a great job in Africa and she was not treated properly by the press, she really worked so hard. They came to me. They wanted to go a little bit public because thats the way they felt and I thought it was fine.
I met with Mira two days ago and were going to move her around. She was with me for a long time, although I dont know her. Shes really somebody I dont know very well. But were going to move her around because shes got certain talents. But, frankly, she is not -- shell never be put in the United Nations, let me put it that way.
Shes not too diplomatic, but shes talented.
Well, I like her a lot. I respect her a lot. Shes very smart. I want her to get much tougher and well see what happens there. But I want to be extremely tough.
Well theres a chance. But theres a chance everybody -- I mean thats what happens in government you leave, you make a name, you go. The people that have left have done very well. The people that have left have done very well -- from my White House. I like her very much, I respect her very much, Id like her to be much tougher on the border -- much tougher, period.
Well --
We -- I wouldnt -- look, we get along well. There are certain things I love what he does. And there are certain things that I dont like that he does -- that arent his strength. Its not that he doesnt do -- you know he works so hard. Hes doing an excellent job in many ways. There are a couple of things where its just not his strength.
Its not his fault, its not his strength.
But I havent even thought about John in terms of this. But John, at some point, is going to want to move on. John will move on.
It could happen. Yeah, it could -- I mean it could be. But lets see what happens. I have not -- look, I have three or four or five positions that Im thinking about. Of that, maybe its going to end up being two. Maybe, but I want to -- I need flexibility.
Yeah.
I did not know that. I did not know he took views on the Mueller investigation as such.
I dont think it had any effect. If you look at those statements those statements that can -- they really can be viewed either way, but I dont think it will have any impact --
Chris, Ill tell you what --
Hes right. What do you do when a persons right? There is no collusion. He happened to be right. I mean, he said it. So if he said there is collusion, Im supposed to be taking somebody that says there is? Because then I wouldnt take him for two reasons, but the number one reason is the fact that he would have been wrong.
If he said that theres no collusion, hes right.
Right.
Look he -- its going to be up to him. I think hes very well aware politically. I think hes astute politically. Hes a very smart person. A very respected person. Hes going to do whats right. I really believe hes going to do whats right.
I would not get involved. And all these people that say Im going to end the investigation, you know, theyve been saying that now for -- how long has this witch hunt gone on? Its gone on for, what?
OK, but how long have I been looked at? You know when Ive been looked at? From the day I…
From the day I announced. I was looked at as a candidate with nothing, no proof, with phony people like McCabe and Strzok and his lover -- you had Lisa Page, his lover. These people were looking at me, they wanted an insurance policy just in case I won or Hillary lost, and this was the insurance policy. Its a scam.
There was no collusion whatsoever, and the whole thing is a scam.
No, no, no, not my team. Im preparing written answers. My -- I -- Im the one that does the answering. Yes, are they writing them out?
Yeah. Theyre writing what I tell them to write.
At some point very soon, yes. Ive completed them.
And it wasnt a big deal. By the way, it wasnt a big deal. The answers -- the questions were asked and answered. It wasnt a big deal. You know, they make it like I had meetings for many, many hours -- I got the questions, I responded, we wrote them out, I read them once, I read them a second time, we made some changes, thats it. Theyre very simple.
You know why? I did nothing wrong.
Yes.
Well there was no obstruction of justice.
I think theyd probably agree with me.
And all you have to do is look at Article II.
I would say probably. Probably. I mean, I can change my mind, but probably. I think weve --
I think weve wasted enough time on this witch hunt and the answer is probably, were finished.
I dont do odds, I gave very detailed --
Youre right, and very successfully actually. We gave very, very complete answers to a lot of questions that I shouldnt have even been asked and I think that should solve the problem, I hope it solves the problem, if it doesnt, you know, Ill be told and well make a decision at that time. But probably this is the end.
Right.
We have the tape, I dont want to hear the tape, no reason for me to hear the tape.
Because its a suffering tape, its a terrible tape. Ive been fully briefed on it, theres no reason for me to hear it, in fact I said to the people should I? They said: "you really shouldnt, theres no reason." I know exactly -- I know everything that went on in the tape without having to hear it.
It was very violent, very vicious and terrible.
Thats right, thats right and still says that.
I dont -- I dont know, you know who could really know but I can say this hes got many people now that say he had no knowledge.
Well, he told me that he had nothing to do with it, he told me that I would say maybe five times at different points.
As recently as a few days ago.
Well, will anybody really know? All right, will anybody really know? But he did have certainly people that were reasonably close to him and close to him that were probably involved. You saw we put on very heavy sanctions, massive sanctions on a large group of people from Saudi Arabia. But at the same time we do have an ally and I want to stick with an ally that in many ways has been very good.
Well I want to see Yemen end but it takes two to tango. Iran has to end it also. And Iran is a different country than it was when I took over, its far weakened because of what I did with the Iran -- so-called Iran deal, Iran nuclear deal, which was one of the great rip-offs of -- of all time. But I want Saudi to stop but I want Iran to stop also.
I won the Senate, you dont mention that.
Excuse me, I won the Senate.
I think they said 88 years.
Are you ready? I won the Senate, and thats historic too, because if you look at presidents in the White House its almost never happened where you won a seat. We won -- we now have 53 as opposed to 51 and we have 53 great Senators in the U.S. Senate. We won. Thats a tremendous victory. Nobody talks about that.
Thats a far greater victory than it is for the other side. Number two, I wasnt on the ballot. I wasnt --
I said look at me -- I said look me.
But I have people and you see the polls, how good they are, I have people that wont vote unless Im on the ballot, OK? And I wasnt on the ballot. And almost everybody that I won -- I think they said it was 10 out of 11. And I won against President Obama and Oprah Winfrey and Michelle Obama in a great state called Georgia for the governor.
And it was all stacked against Brian and I was the one that went for Brian and Brian won. Look at Florida. I went down to Florida. Rick Scott won and he won by a lot. I dont know what happened to all those votes that disappeared at the very end. And if I didnt put a spotlight on that election before it got down to the 12,500 votes he would of lost that election, OK? In my opinion he would have lost.
They would have taken that election away from him. Rick Scott won Florida. Youd have to say, excuse me, a man named Ron DeSantis is now your governor -- your new governor of Florida. A wonderful man named DeWine is your governor of the great state of Ohio. Remember what they used to say before my election?
You cannot win unless you win Ohio. I won Ohio. We had a tremendous set of victories. You look at the victories --
I didnt run. I wasnt running. My name wasnt on the ballot. There are many people that think, "I dont like Congress," that like me a lot. I get it all the time; "Sir, well never vote unless youre on the ballot." I get it all the time. People are saying, "Sir, I will never vote unless youre on the ballot.
I say, "No, no, go and vote." "Well, what do you mean?" As much as I try and convince people to go vote, Im not on the ballot.
Its fine, I mean its not a big deal. What they said, though, is that we have to create rules and regulations for conduct et cetera, et cetera, were doing that. Were going to write them up right now, its not a big deal. And if he misbehaves, well throw him out or well stop the news conference. Actually --
Yeah, theyre doing them now. I mean, well have rules of decorum, you know, you cant keep asking questions, you have -- we had a lot of reporters in that room, many, many reporters in that room and they were unable to ask questions because this guy gets up and starts, you know, doing what hes supposed to be doing for him and for CNN and, you know, just shouting out questions.
But but I will say this, look, nobody believes in the First Amendment more than I do and if I think somebodys acting out of sorts, I will leave, Ill say thank you very much everybody, I appreciate you coming and I will leave. And those reporters will not be too friendly to whoever it is thats acting up.
Actually I like to do it, but in many cases I dont. Hell stand up, hes unbelievably rude to Sarah Huckabee, whos a wonderful woman, unbelievably rude and I see that and I actually ask her the same. Why do you call on these people that are so nasty?
I think one of the things well do is maybe turn the camera off that faces them because then they dont have any air time, although Ill probably be sued for that and maybe, you know, win or lose it, who knows. I mean, with with this stuff you never know whats going to happen.
Thats true, 100 percent. Not the media.
Im glad youre finally quoting it correctly because they like to leave the fake news out --
The fake news -- so --
The people that are supporting me in particular, theyre very smart people. Theyre hard working, brilliant, great people. They know when the news is fake and they get angry when they see all of the fakeness --
At, frankly, the networks --
Chris, Im calling the fake news is the enemy -- its fake, its phony.
No its not, no. No. I dont mind getting bad news if Im wrong. If I do something wrong -- like, for instance, the cemetery. I was not allowed to go because of the Secret Service. Because they expected to take a helicopter --
They had zero visibility. They said, "Sir, we are totally unequipped for you to go." In addition to that, the cemetery was far too far away from Air Force One, which is sort of like a control center, where you had to be near.
Not one paper that I saw wrote it that way. They said I stayed out of it because of the rain. And yet, the following day, I made a speech at the American cemetery --
It was pouring. It wasnt even really raining the first day but the fog was tremendous. OK?
I cant talk for other people, I can only talk for me. I will tell you --
The news -- Chris -- Chris, Im not talking about you, but you sometimes maybe. But Im not talking about you.
The news about me is largely phony. Its false. Even sometimes theyll say, uh, "Sources say." There is no source, in many cases -- in many cases there is --
No, no, no. Its not a question --
Ninety-four percent negative.
Yeah.
Hillary Clinton fan.
Excuse me, Hillary Clinton fan.
OK, hes a Hilary Clinton, uh, backer and an Obama-backer and frankly --
Wouldnt it have been nice if we got Osama Bin Laden a lot sooner than that, wouldnt it have been nice? You know, living -- think of this -- living in Pakistan, beautifully in Pakistan in what I guess they considered a nice mansion, I dont know, Ive seen nicer. But living in Pakistan right next to the military academy, everybody in Pakistan knew he was there.
And we give Pakistan $1.3 billion a year and they dont tell him, they dont tell him --
For years --
They took him down but -- look, look, theres news right there, he lived in Pakistan, were supporting Pakistan, were giving them $1.3 billion a year, which we dont give them anymore, by the way, I ended it because they dont do anything for us, they dont do a damn thing for us.
Im totally in favor of the media, Im totally in favor of free press, got to be fair press. When its fake --
I can tell whats fair and not and so can my people and so can a lot of other people.
When you do something very good and they write it badly and this is consistently when you -- as an example, rarely do they talk about --
Well, no, he didnt talk about the news, he didnt talk about anything, Im only saying it very differently than anyones ever said it before, Im saying fake news, false reporting, dishonest reporting, of which there is a lot, and I know it. See, I know it because Im a subject of it. A lot of people dont know it. But when I explain it to them, they understand it.
And, Chris, you know that better, you dont have to sit here and act like a perfect little, wonderful, innocent angel, I know you too well, I knew your father too well, thats not your gene. But let me tell you --
Fake news --
Most of it is bias, most of it is bias.
Im not calling you that.
Im not calling you -- you dont understand it.
No, no, no, Im not calling you --
I am calling fake news, fake reporting, is whats tearing this country apart because people know, people like things that are happening and theyre not hearing about it.
I think Im doing a great job. We have the best economy weve ever had.
Were doing really well. We would have been at war with North Korea if, lets say, that administration continued forward.
I would give myself, I would -- look, I hate to do it, but I will do it, I would give myself an A+, is that enough? Can I go higher than that?
No, no.
Just wont happen, its not -- I think the eight year limit is a good thing, not a bad thing.
No, excuse me. Not security concern -- they wouldnt allow me to go --
They said, "Sir," Secret Service said, "Sir, you cannot go. We are not prepared. You cannot go." Because it was supposed to be helicopter, but the helicopter couldnt fly because of zero visibility. So --
They said, "Sir, you cannot go."
I should have done that. I was extremely busy on calls for the country, we did a lot of calling, as you know --
I probably, you know, in retrospect I should have and I did last year and I will virtually every year. But we had come in very late at night and I had just left, literally, the American cemetery in Paris and I really probably assumed that was fine and I was extremely busy because of affairs of state doing other things.
But I would have -- I would have done it.
Well, I think you will see that happen. There are things that are being planned. We dont want to talk about it because of -- obviously because of security reasons and everything else.
But there are things that are planned. As you know, I was very much opposed to the war in Iraq. I think it was a tremendous mistake, should have never happened --
Youre right.
I dont think anybodys been more with the military than I have, as a president. In terms of funding, in terms of all of the things Ive been able to get them, including the vets. I dont think anybodys done more than me.
Ive had an unbelievable busy schedule and I will be doing it. On top of which you have these phony witch hunts. On top of which -- I mean, weve just been very busy. But I will be doing that.
Mia Love gave me no love and she lost. Too bad. Sorry about that Mia.
The same thing with April Ryan. I watch her get up. I mean, you talk about somebody thats a loser, she doesnt know what the hell shes doing.
What a stupid question that is. What a stupid question. But I watch you a lot. You ask a lot of stupid questions.
I think that if I was very different I wouldnt have gotten what we had to get. We got the biggest tax cuts in history, we got ANWR approved, we have -- we got rid of the individual mandate, which was the most unpopular thing you can imagine -- health care -- I got rid of it, everybody said it would be impossible to get rid of it.
And many many -- you know, the regulations. I think if I was a more modified, more moderate, in that sense, I dont think I would have done half of the things that I was able to get completed.
With that being said, other than you have to have a certain ability to fight back and, as you know, people have -- you know, they take strong stands on me both ways, you know, love and hate. Id like to see it a little bit, maybe, more right down the middle.
But tone is something that is important to me. But a lot of times you cant practice tone because you have people coming at you so hard that if you dont fight back in a somewhat vigorous way youre not going to win. And we have to win. This country has to win.
We have a lot of victories coming and I think if I -- if I go too low-key were not going to have those victories.
Thank you. Thank you very much, Chris.
I have, I feel very comfortable. It took me a little while. You know, its sort of incredible. You say youre the President of the United States, and I say, wow, and it takes a little while to get over that.
Yeah.
Right.
Here we are, you know Ive had people come into this -- the biggest people in the world, presidents, prime ministers, the heads of the biggest companies in the world and they always stop and they say, this is the Oval Office.
This is the Oval Office. There is nothing like it in the world. This is the Resolute Desk, very famous. This is where John John, at the time, right?
John Kennedy was right here, thats a little door that opens up and that was the famous picture, I could show you that picture, in fact, Ill give it to you. But this is a very important desk -- FDR, John Kennedy, you know, we have seven desks and as president you can choose any one of the desks. This is to me, I think the most beautiful, in terms of its carving.
I also think in many respects its just some people that I respect.
I dont think about it, I dont think about, you know, how I make them. I make what I consider the right decision, I have great people working at the White House, they dont get enough credit. I have some tremendously talented people and I will talk to them and sometimes Ill have them go at each other, I do like that, you know let them go at each other.
And they do. Theyve very competitive people and at the end I make a decision and its certainly -- on the economy, a lot of things weve been -- weve made a lot of good decisions and I want to keep it that way.
Yes, oh, all the time.
Ive done things where I wished I went a different route but then what you do is you change course and you -- you bring it back, you stabilize it out. But --
Well, I think North Koreas been very tough because you know we were very close. When I took that over President Obama right in those two chairs, we sat and talked and he said thats by far the biggest problem that this country has. And I think we had real decision as to which way to go on North Korea and certainly at least so far Im very happy with the way we went.
I have a very good relationship with --
Maybe they are, maybe theyre not, I dont believe that, I dont. And you know could which is -- if thats the way it goes, thats the way it goes. You know, I go with the way we have to go but so far its been good, we have a very good relationship. Weve made I think some great decisions for the people of this country and I do, you know I put America first and other countries should put themselves first.
