Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Delivers a Campaign Speech in Sarasota, FL|November 7, 2016
Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Wow. In one day, we are going to win the great state of Florida and we are going to take back the White House. Were going to take it back. Florida is my second home. A state I love so much. And by the way, Hillary, once this is over, shell never come back to Florida.
Shes got nothing to do with Florida. Im here with the houses and the buildings and thousands and thousands of employees who we love, and she got nothing to do with this place. She doesnt know Florida, that I can tell you. But I am really thrilled to be here. This is the last day of our campaign. Who would have believed this?
Who would have believed it? Its been some campaign too. Its been some campaign. They say its the single greatest movement, politically speaking, in the history of this country. Can you believe that? Can you believe it? Thats quite an honor. And they say well get a tremendous amount of credit, win or lose.
I said, "No, no, no, no. I dont want any credit if we lose." Im not looking for credit. Im not looking for credit. Im looking to make America great again, not credit. This election will decide whether we are ruled by a corrupt political class. Youve been watching whats going ov -- hey, folks, this system is rigged, its rigged, OK? This system is rigged.
At least we know it. And people in this country, I think because of us, have never known it so obviously as they do now. The system is totally rigged. Hillary Clinton should not even be allowed to run for the presidency of the United States. She shouldnt be allowed to run. Its disgraceful. Whats happening -- whats happening is a disgrace and our country is a laughing stock all over the world.
With whats happening with our justice, our country is a laughing stock all over the world. Theyre laughing. If we win -- well, you know what you can do? Go out and vote tomorrow. Thats what you can do. Ill tell you. Thats the only way. Thats where you beat the rigging, folks. If we win, the corrupt politicians and their donors lose.
If they win, the American people lose a big league. This is it, folks. We will never have another opportunity, not in four years, not in eight years, itll be over, with Supreme Court justices, with people pouring into our country. This is it. This is it. Good luck. Get out there. I did my thing. I mean, I worked.
Yesterday -- yesterday, they said I set a record. I had crowds like -- I got massive crowds. Thank you. Thank you. But yesterday we set a record. We went to seven different states. You had to see these crowds in Michigan, which I think were going to win Michigan by the way. Ill tell you, were going to win Michigan.
You know what were going to win? Were going to win Minnesota. Were going to win Minnesota. Were leading big in Ohio. Were leading in Iowa. Were leading in New Hampshire where Im going in a little while. Were leading in North Carolina. Were doing very, very well in Pennsylvania, very well. You watch whats going to happen in Pennsylvania.
The miners are going to come out. The workers are going to come out. The steel workers who lost their jobs are coming out. By the way, lots of people surrounding Philadelphia are going to come out and theyre voting because they want to vote. And you know who is going to come out? The women are going to come out.
You watch. The women. The women are going to come out big. Its all a phony deal. Theyre telling you a lot of phony stuff. They are so worried. You had to see him on television this morning. You know, they get a note handed over that were leading in lets say New Hampshire, which we are. They get a note.
Very happy and now everythings going  puts it. "Mr. Trump is leading in New Hampshire." You can see theyre thrilled. Theyre totally thrilled. You -- they are thrilled. By the way, I just run into this. Im a big fan of Billy Graham. We all are. Who isnt? Well, who isnt? Who isnt? Im also a big fan, and hes been so incredible to me, of Franklin Graham.
Hes a great guy. Hes keeping it going. And Billy Grahams granddaughter was here and spoke incredibly I hear -- I hear. But Cissie Graham Lynch is here someplace. Wheres Cissie? Where is she? You were so great. Everybody is saying, "If you can do as well as Cissie, youve done a good job." So thank you.
That is an amazing -- I will tell you, my father used to take me, they called it The Crusades. And that was the -- that was The Crusades. It was a beautiful thing. But Billy Graham was amazing. I think, is he 98 today? 98 years old, Billy Graham. Thank you, Cissie. Really great. Say hello to your family.
Billy Graham is 98 years old. This is an amazing -- truly one of the great, great men. Our failed political establishment has delivered nothing but poverty at home and disaster overseas. They get rich making America poor. Its time to reject the media and political elite thats bled our country dry. Its finally time for us to fight for America.
Were going to fight for America. Im not a politician. My only special interest is you. You know, I built a great company, one of the great companies, one of the great real estate companies, some of the most incredible assets in the world, including Doral right down the road and lots of other things, buildings on the beach with a  family and with related -- weve had a tremendous career, but -- and I was on the other side.
You know, my whole life, I was always watching, watching. I was on the other side. Its very nice and very comfortable to be on the other side. But I love this country, and this country was going bad. It was going bad. So I went like from sort of an ultimate insider. I mean, people that absolutely -- senators had called," Don, how are you?" You know, theyd come over every year, Id give them a check for some crazy thing theyre doing.
And theyll say, "Donald, how are you? How are you?" The I announced, it was like, "Donald who? We dont know -- we dont know Donald Trump." You have to see these guys. I know them better than anybody. It was time. It was time. I had to join the other side, which is you. We are going to do things so special.
Our country was in trouble. Our country was in trouble. 20 trillion in debt. Making deals like the deal with Iran where we give them 150 billion, where we give them $1.7 billion in cash. You know what that is? Thatd fill up this side of the arena. Nobody ever even heard of things like this. When you look at our military is allowed to deplete.
Our militarys very depleted. We cant do that. This is among the times where we most need a tremendous and powerful and smart military. We need smart people. And Obamacare is a disaster. And everythings wrong. Our country doesnt win anymore. Were going to start winning again. OK? Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.
Its just been announced that the residents of Florida -- sorry to tell you this, folks. I dont want to -- I dont want to make you depress. Youre happy, youre going to walk out of the room, but dont do that. Are going to experience massive double digit premium hikes. OK? And theyre far greater than what youve been told.
Youve been told numbers because they didnt want to do it before the election. I worked very hard to force those numbers out. Its going to have a great impact on -- you know, my poll numbers are going through the roof. You know why. I really believe a big part of it is Obamacare because were going to repeal it and replace it. In the great state of Arizona, premiums are going up more than 116%. Over 90% of the counties in Florida are losing Obamacare and theyre losing the insurers that put Obamacare there.
But you know what, were going to make it 100% of the counties because were going to terminate Obamacare and its not going to make a difference. Well be terminating Obamacare and well be replacing it with so many different options. But youll have great health care at a fraction -- a fraction of the cost.
And itll be great. With Obamacare, premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, and deductibles are going through the roof. Yet, crooked Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive. Its going to go way up. Going to go way up. Obamacare is going much higher.
Nobody in this room can believe whats going on in Washington. Nobody in this room can believe whats going on with the FBI and whats going on with the Department of Justice. Nobody. Nobody can believe it. Nobody can believe it. Im asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Florida and in our great country.
Real change also means restoring honesty to our government. Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency of the United States. She threaten national security. She sold her office to the highest bidder. And then to cover her tracks, she deleted at least 33,000 e-mails after receiving a Congressional subpoena.
Hillary Clinton is being protected by a totally rigged system. And now, its up to the American people to deliver justice at the ballot box tomorrow. Thats whats going to happen. Thats whats going to happen. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take back our country, and to take it back swiftly from the special interests who I know so well.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words we all are about to say. When we win tomorrow, we are going to drain the swamp. You know, the other day you read where Hillary Clinton called entertainers because she cant get anybody -- nobody wants to go. I mean, look, I dont know. I see shes doing fine.
Im doing fine in the polls and all that so -- I dont know how -- nobody goes to her rallies. So she got Jay-Z and Beyonce, and the language they used was so bad. The language -- the language is so bad. And as they were singing -- singing, right? Singing -- talking. Was it talking or singing? I dont know.
But the language -- by both. But the language was so bad that many of the people left, right? By the time Hillary got up, there was nobody there. But the crooked media, those people back there, the most dishonest people. The crooked media does nothing, they dont explain it. They dont explain it. And isnt it amazing that when Jay-Z and Beyonce used that filthy language that they used in the songs, using words that if I ever said those words, it would be the reinstitution of the electric chair, right?
Right? Its true. Its true. And they used these words and then she comes on and hugs him like everythings great. And yet with me, hes very lewd. Its a new word, you know, lewd. I mean, Ive never seen anything like it in my life. She is such a phony. She is such a phony. Now, I will say this, Cissie.
I dont think that Billy Graham ever spoke like this. Do we agree? This is -- this is different than a Billy Graham crusade. But you know what, were all looking for the same thing. Were looking for greatness for our country. Were looking for religious liberty -- looking for religious liberty. But we are somewhat different personalities.
Look at this mask. Look at this mask. Wow. Wow. Thats beautiful. Look at that. Looks -- looks just like me.  Nice set of hair, Ill say you that. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any place more fun to be than a Trump rally? Right? At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. Florida has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife, Hillary.
America has lost, hard to believe this, 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of our world. Look, no country has ever lost jobs like us. Theyre sucked out of our country. The companies leave, they fire everybody, they go to Mexico and many other countries.
Never happened before like this, and were going to stop at day one. Its so easy to stop. Its so easy. So easy to stop. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving Florida. Promise. If a company wants to fire their workers, leave Florida, and move to another country like Mexico, as an example, and then ship their products back into the United States through what will become an unbelievably strong border.
I will tell you. We will make them pay a 35% tax on those products . And Ill tell you whats going to happen. Ill tell you whats going to happen. Nobodys going to leave because the model no longer works. You know, Ford is leaving. I was in Michigan last night. Ford is leaving, theyre all leaving.
Thats why Im going to win Michigan. I believe were going to win Michigan. Michigan, theyve ripped -- they have ripped cars out of their factories, out of their plants out of there. Same thing, Ohio. So many companies have gone to Mexico and other countries, and were going to win these states by tremendous amounts because people are tired of being ripped off.
Thats whats happening. Theyre being ripped off. Theyre being led by politicians who, frankly -- you know, I went to an Ivy League school. I was a good student and all that stuff, but some words are just like -- you cant duplicate them, right? Were tired of being led by stupid people. Theyre stupid -- theyre stupid people.
We will renegotiate NAFTA, stand up to China, and stop the job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will be a disaster. Hillary Clinton said its the gold standard, and shes right. Remember, she lied in the debate. She said she never said. I said you did say it. She said -- well, turned out she lied.
She did say it was the goal standard. I say she was right though. Its the gold standard for the other countries, not for us. So she was actually right. She should have said that, she would have stopped a lie. She doesnt know what shes doing. As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35% to 15%. And we are going to massively cut taxes for the middle class who I call -- who I call the forgotten people.
These are the forgotten men and women. They built our country. They built our country. Hillary Clinton wants to raise taxes -- wants to raise taxes. I love those signs. Blacks for Trump. Hold that sign up. Im telling you -- Im telling you, Blacks for Trump. You know -- you know, one of the things theyre seeing in a couple of these states like Florida, African-Americans arent turning out, and when they do, there are a lot of them voting for Trump.
This is very disturbing to the other side. Theyre not turning out because they dont care about her. Shes got -- shes got not a lot of inspiration. She used the term called super predator to define black youth, right? Super predator. And theyre not turning out. Theyre not turning out. And then theyre worried because when they do turn out, Im getting so many more than was anticipated.
I think the same is going to be true with Hispanic. You know, the Cubans gave me the award. The Bay of Pigs Association -- the Bay of Pigs Association last week gave me the award, Man of the Year, the Bay of Pigs Association. And it was a great honor. No, were going to do great with the African-Americans.
Were going to do great with the Hispanics. And the other side is starting to see it and they are not happy. They are not happy. Were going to be one country. Were not going to be a divided nation anymore. Were divided nation. We are a divided nation. Thank you. Proud of our country. We will also cancel billions and billions of dollars in global warming payments to the United Nations where those payments disappear, and were going to use all of that money to invest in the infrastructure, and we could even say the environmental infrastructure of our country.
And remember this -- remember this, when it comes to environment, because Ive received many environmental awards, you know, people dont want to talk about that. Thats OK. But we need absolutely crystal clear and clean water. We need beautiful, immaculate air. And we need safety. And we need safety. We give billions and billions of dollars away.
You can imagine whos taking that money. You can imagine. We dont even know what happens to it. And we -- he goes Hillary is taking it. Probably. Hey, youre pretty smart, probably. Probably she gets her piece. And we will create jobs and opportunities for African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans that have been failed so badly.
Theyve been lied to, theyve been cheated to by the Democratic Party. They want their vote. Give us your vote. Thanks a lot. See you in four years. Thats what happens. Were going to do our job. For instance, I met recently with the leaders in the Puerto Rican community. Community thats -- its a great community.
I know it well. And theyre being crushed by high taxes, regulations, and failed education policies of Hillary Clinton and Obama. You know where Obama is now? Not working on jobs, not working on Mosul where they gave them four months advance notice. Our military, "We are going into Mosul four months, right?
In four months, we are expecting to enter Mosul." I -- Im turning -- I said, "Please, turn off the television. I cant hear it." The element of surprise, folks. So then I hear three months. "Yes, in three months, well be attacking Mosul." Now its two months, then its a month, then its two weeks. "Were preparing now to go into Mosul.
We want to get their leaders because, you know, ISIS supposedly the leaders are -- ", dont they realize that the first time before they finish the first sentence four months ago, those leaders have already found new places. Dont they understand that? General Douglas MacArthur, where are you, sir? Where is our General George Patton?
Where are they? Where is General Patton? Where is General George Patton? You know where they are? Theyre watching and theyre spinning in their grave. They dont believe it. Wouldnt it be nice if we just shut up, did the job, had a news conference a week later, and said we had great success? Wouldnt that be nice?
Now, thats Obama -- thats Obama. And you know what, Hillary, that would be four more years of Obama and we dont want it. And tell -- and tell this President to stop campaigning and go back to work. Im going to deliver jobs, safety, great education, help small businesses to thrive and grow, and create amazing opportunities for the children of this country.
Here, in Florida, we have such an amazing, incredible Hispanic-American community from Cuba, from Puerto Rico, from Venezuela, from Haiti. I was in Little Haiti the other day, great people. They are such warm, great people. By the way, warm, great people, spend a lot of time with them. They hate the Clintons.
They hate what the Clintons did to them in Haiti. They hate them. The Dominican Republic and from many other places. To all of our wonderful Hispanic communities in this state, I want you to know that you will have a true friend and champion in Donald Trump, that I can tell you. Whether you vote for me or not, Im with you.
I will never ever let you down. We will become a rich nation once again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in the inflow of Syrian refugees into our country, 550%. Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism, and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities.
When Im elected President, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. And you know what, folks, all of us, Im speaking for all of us, we all have heart. And I have to say this in front of Cissie anyway. But we all have heart. And were going to build safe zones in Syria.
Were going to get the Gulf states, they have tremendous amounts of money. I know them well. And theyre going to help. Theyre going to put up all the money. Were not going to put up money. Were going to lead it and well do a great job. But were going to get the Gulf states to put up the money. We owe $20 trillion and we have to rebuild our own country, its time -- its time.
But were going to build safe zones in Syria and we have to do that because whats happening is just a horrible thing, whats happening. But we have enough problems in our country. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a great wall, and yes, Mexico will pay for the wall.
Theyre going to pay for the wall. We have to keep the massive amounts of drugs that are pouring into our country and poisoning our youth. We have to keep it out. Never before has there been a drug epidemic like we have in our country. And much of it is coming through the southern border, and its pouring in. Its pouring in. And it truly is poisoning our youth and plenty of other people.
We are going to keep it out and we are going to work very hard with medical professionals to take care of those people that are so badly addicted. All right? Hillary supports totally open borders. There goes your country. There goes your country, folk. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant who was deported probably more than five times.
We will cancel all Federal funding to sanctuary cities. We will stop illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens, and dismantle every last criminal gang and cartel threatening our cities. Theyre threatening our cities, theyre threatening our citizens. Theyre not going to be here very long, folks, theyre going to be out of here.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. We have no choice. This defense buildup will be supported by brand new ships in Mayport and by engineers and new advanced manufacturing of the Space Coast, OK, Space Coast. You know, the Space Coast has been -- like been lost.
New aircraft will fly from MacDill Air Force Base and Naval Air Station Pensacola. Were also going to support our friends in Cuba in their fight against oppression -- the oppression of the Castro -- of the Castro regime, tremendous repression. We will demand political and religious freedom for the people of Cuba and stand with our friends in Venezuela in their struggle likewise for freedom.
We will stand. And were always going to help the people of Haiti who have such a tremendous difficult path, but we will help them and help them rebuild. People of Haiti, incredible people. I really enjoyed that time with them. Very importantly, well also stand strong. We have to stand strong with the state of Israel in their fight against Islamic terrorism.
Barack Obama was the worst thing that ever happened to Israel, the worst thing. The worst thing that ever happened to Israel. Barack Obama was a disaster for Israel. And believe me, the Iran deal where we made them rich, we also gave them a direct path right to nuclear weapons. But well be working with Israel very closely -- very, very closely.
Im honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 -- and that number is raising -- rising very quickly, and 22 Medal of Honor recipients, incredible people. We were with them the other night right next to Fort Bragg. And Ill tell you, we had 22, maybe 25,000 people in a field, that was the most incredible thing youve ever seen, incredible.
These are incredible people. These are truly great patriots and they are truly brave. Hillary unleashed destruction in Iraq, Syria, Libya. She empowered Iran and she unleashed ISIS onto the world. There was no ISIS when she was Secretary of State. Then they allowed -- the way they -- look, we should have never been in Iraq, but we were.
We should have never gotten out of Iraq the way Obama and Clinton got us out. Never. Never. A vacuum was formed, and thank you very much, we now have ISIS in 32 countries all over the world, unleashed by Obama and Hillary Clinton. But were going to knock them out. We have no choice. Were going to knock them out, folks.
Were going to knock them out. Thats one we have. Chopping off heads, drowning people in steel cages, not since medieval times have we seen anything like this. Not since medieval times have we seen anything like this. And then Im in one of the debates. Did I win the debates by the way? Did I win? They did nine online polls after the debates, and all nine said I won, and she was in debate prep all the time.
I was guilty. I was saying like -- they kept saying, "Are you in debate prep?" I say, "Yeah, Ive been doing this stuff all my life." Im supposed to be studying like -- she was in debate prep, but it wasnt really. Look, for a week and a half before each debate, she would close the door, go to sleep, and say it was debate prep, right?
Right? And then when she left those debates, she was exhausted. Ill tell you, when she left the second and third debate, she was exhausted. Its not what we need in our country, folks. We need a lot of energy in our country and a lot of . Need a lot of things, we dont need Hillary. Get out and vote.
Get out and vote. Whos already voted? Thats pretty good. Wow. Wait, youve almost all voted. All right. Goodbye everybody. Well, thats what the Democrats do to the inner cities, you know. They say, "They voted. Lets get out of here. Ill see in four years." Wow, thats pretty good. All right, for the few people that havent, thats a very impressive -- thats an impre -- I love you too.
Thank you. I love you too. I love you too. Get out and vote for the few that havent. Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe and that we never win. We never win. Shipped our -- I dont think you like Hillary very much either. Boy, what a -- what a disaster this is. She gets in, its a disaster.
Shes not going to get in, folks. I dont see it. Ill tell you. I dont see it. Not going to get in. Theyve shipped our jobs and our wealth, Hillary, all over the world and left our borders wide open at home. That will all change starting, actually, tomorrow -- actually tomorrow. Because while we dont take office until mid-January, the whole psyche will change as of tomorrow, right?
This guy knows. Firemen -- firemen, right? Great firemen, great people. Great, great people. Its not easy being a fireman today, right? No? Thank you. You see a great fireman over here. I was with the fire groups the other day. They have a new problem. Nobody ever heard of this problem. You know about -- can I -- wow, get that for me. Wow.
Thank you. Great. Thats great. Thank you. Tell you what, I was all set to put it on, then I see its about 20 years old that this sucker has been used. No way Im putting that on. No, but the firemen have -- have a big -- they have a big problem now. They have a shooting problem where theyre being shot at as they go to fires.
This is a new phenomena. People dont even know about it. Theyre being shot at as they go to fires. Theyre being shot at as they put out fires. And so we got to change, folks, we have to -- we have to bring people together. We have such a divided country. Thank you . Thank you. From now on, its going to be America first.
To all Americans, I say, it is time for change. It is time for new, strong, and smart leadership. Just in summing up. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Think Im going to be doing six of these today. Can you believe this? Six. Going to North Carolina. Were going to -- all over. Were going to New Hampshire right after.
Its going to be great. And I love doing it because theres such spirit, the people -- the people of this country are so incredible. Look at that. Look at that. Beautiful, beautiful baby. Beautiful baby. Good job. Good job, daddy. Wow. Thats an elephant costume. Thats so cute. Thank you. Thats very nice.
Thank you. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes. We will save and protect Social Security and Medicare. Hillarys going to cut your Social Security and cut your Medicare benefits.
We will eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation, theyre killing our businesses. Cancel every illegal Obama executive order of which there are many. In honor of the great Billy Graham, we will protect religious liberty, rebuild our military, and take great care finally of our veterans. Our veterans are not being treated properly.
Provide school choice and put an end to Common Core, bring our education local. Support the great men and women of law enforcement. Save our Second Amendment, which is under siege. And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. This is so hard to believe.
You have one day until the election. You know what that means? That means tomorrow. You have one day to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true. You have one magnificent chance to beat the corrupt system and deliver justice. You will deliver justice for every forgotten man, forgotten woman, and forgotten child in this nation.
Do not let this opportunity slip away. We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests. And we are fighting to bring us all together as Americans. Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.
Thank you. Im asking you to dream big because with your vote, we are just one day away from the change youve been waiting for your entire life. I think and hope it will be the most important vote you will ever cast because we dont win anymore as a country, we dont win on the borders, we dont win with trade, what China is doing to us is beyond belief.
We dont win anymore. We dont win with our military. We have the greatest people in the world, but we dont beat ISIS. We dont win anymore. We will start winning again and winning like youve never seen before. I tell you. Were going to win again. Fact, the people of Florida may get tired of it. You may say, "This guy.
He wins too much. We cant take it. He wins too much." Youll send your emissary. "Please, Mr. President, the people of Florida just dont want to win this much. Its too -- your winning on trade, youre bringing back jobs. Youre winning at the border. The military is unbelievable. Its too much." And Ill say, "Sorry, folks.
