Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Richmond, Kentucky|October 13, 2018
Thats right, USA. And hello, Kentucky. Thank you. And Im thrilled to be back in the heartland with thousands of loyal, hard-working American patriots. In just 24 days, the people of Kentucky -- we love Kentucky -- greatest horses in the world and plenty of other things -- are going to elect an incredible slate of Republican candidates to protect your jobs, defend your borders, and continue making America great again.
Just hours ago, we celebrated another tremendous victory for the American people. You know what Im talking about. Were having a lot of victories, folks. Can you handle it? In the Oval Office of the White House, I welcomed home Pastor Andrew Brunson, great man, from Turkey. He is now free from jail. Think of that, 35-year jail sentence, 35 years.
Not anymore. Hes back with his family, together with his wife, and he is on American soil. And its a beautiful family. Theyre all together. And I want to thank President Erdogan of Turkey. He was -- he was terrific. We all worked together. It wasnt easy. It wasnt easy. That one wasnt easy. And we dont pay ransom.
We dont pay ransom. But I do -- I want to thank the president. I want to thank the people of Turkey. And I think well probably now really establish a terrific relationship with Turkey. We appreciate it. This evening, in the wake of Hurricane Michael, our thoughts are with our fellow citizens in Florida, Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia.
They got hit hard. They got hit hard, especially when you look at -- when you look at Florida, did you ever see anything like that? And you look at Georgia, Georgia got hit hard. That was some wind force. Up to 200 miles -- almost 200 miles an hour, one of the most vicious weve ever been hit with. So I just want to thank all of those incredible people, the people of FEMA, the first responders... law enforcement, and all of the thousands of federal employees and National Guard, all of the personnel, theyre now on the ground, theyre supporting this really major recovery.
I will say, you have thousands of electrical trucks all lined up, theyre following in, theyre getting the roads cleared, not easy. And they have done some job. You had 600,000 people without electric. In one day, they got it down to 250,000. Thats some job, one day. And we will not rest until the job is done.
Were here tonight to discuss everything we have accomplished together in less than two years time. Think of it. Think of it. And Im here tonight, although Ive been back many times, I love this state... to thank the people of Kentucky for 2016. We didnt have to wait too long for that. We didnt have to wait too long for that.
Remember, the vote is in, the polls have closed in Kentucky, Donald Trump is the winner of Kentucky. That was fast. That was fast. And to make sure that Americas extraordinary comeback, we want to make sure it continues full speed ahead. We dont want Democrats... that are coming from a different place, we dont want them getting in office.
All theyll do is abstract. Under Republican leadership, America is booming. Its thriving. America is winning again because we are finally putting America first.  Our countrys unemployment rate has just fallen to 3.7 percent, the lowest in over 50 years. Fifty years. Median household income has reached an all-time high.
Thats pretty good. It means youre making more money than youve ever made before. I dont know how much better, but were going to get it up higher. We have eliminated a record number of job-killing regulations. And some of you will love this, and Im proud of it, these are great people, its a great resource when properly used.
We have ended the war on clean, beautiful coal. Were putting our miners back to work like never before. Theyre going back, back, back. And after years of rebuilding other nations, we are finally rebuilding our nation. And we are doing it with American iron, aluminum, and look at what happened to steel.
You see the comeback with steel? Everyones going back to work. The steel mills are opening up, U.S. Steel, Nucor. Theyre all opening up their steel mills. That was faster than I thought. And were stopping the dumping. And if they want to dump, they can but they got to pay a lot. So if you think about it, so true, despite our size, America is now the hottest country anywhere in the world.
This is where people want to be. Since my election, weve picked up in worth $11.7 trillion. Think of that. Think of it. And we are going to get along great with China, but were doing things with China, and theyve dropped about $20 trillion. But you know what? Theyre going to be just fine, but they have to treat us fairly.
They have to treat us fairly. Right? Thats right. And every day, we are living by our motto, promises made, promises kept.  And you look back there at the fake news media, look at them. Look at them. Its like the Academy Awards every time. You know, Id like to walk into a place one night and not have any of these guys.
Boy. It gets bigger and bigger. But even they have said that President Trump, and you know they probably get fired the next day, that President Trump made promises during the campaign, and Ive actually produced more than the promises I made. How often do you hear that? And we all produced it together. We have incredible people.
Mitch and Rand, and we all produced it together. We have a great team. But we need more of them. We need more Republican votes. We have a majority thats essentially, Rand, not a majority. If somebody has a cold, we dont have a majority, right? So we have to get some more Republicans in there, and were here for some good ones tonight.
On Monday night at the White House, we kept one of the biggest and most historic promises of all. Do you know what were talking about, right? Never has a man been treated so badly. America watched as we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. A great, great gentleman.
What happened to him was so unfair. Ive never seen anything like it. And we stuck with him all the way because we knew the facts. We stuck with him all the way. And Rand Paul and Mitch, they stuck with him. No doubts about it. No doubts. Remember that. Remember that. He now sits alongside Justice Neil Gorsuch to defend your sacred rights and your God-given freedom.
What the crazy, radical Democrats did to Justice Kavanaugh is a national disgrace. From the moment Brett Kavanaugh was known, well, you know what happened. We announced the name, we nominated him, and literally from the moment he was nominated, they didnt even know. Its actually, if you think of it, its from before he was nominated, nobody knew anything about who it was going to be. I didnt even make my decision yet, and they started saying horrible things about whoever the person might be. They were on a mission to obstruct, resist, delay, demolish, and destroy.
The Democrats have become totally consumed by their chilling lust for power. And Ill tell you something, we have a man, one of the most powerful men in the world, its OK, comes from Kentucky, thats not bad. Got to respect that. And he heard about this, he says I want to be there. Hes one of yours. Hes joining us tonight.
Hes rock-ribbed Kentucky leader. Hes been a leader for a long time. Theres nobody tougher. Theres nobody smarter. He refused to cave to the radical Democrats shameful campaign of political and personal destruction. He stared down, tough cookie -- I know tough people, hes tough, hes Kentucky tough, which is about as tough... He stared down the angry left-wing mob.
He never blinked, and he never looked back, and he got us a man who will be one of our great, great Supreme Court justices, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. Come up here.
Thank you, Kentucky. Arent we proud of President Trump? Let me just add, thanks to President Trump and a Republican Senate, 84 new federal judges already this Congress. Thats already a record, Mr. President. Keep sending them our way and well keep confirming them and change the court system forever. Thank you for being here.
Thank you. And Mitch is a true fighter for Kentucky. He loves this state. And you know, well be running together in 2020. That will be a lot of fun. Thank you, Mitch. On this Election Day, November 6th, every American faces a simple choice. You can either vote for Democrat mob rule or you can vote for a Republican Party that stands proudly for law and order, fairness, freedom, and justice.
Simple as that. If Nancy Pelosi... crying Chuck Schumer, and the radical Democrats take over Congress, they will try to raise your taxes, they will immediately restore job-killing regulations, they will impose, believe it or not, socialism, take away your health care, your health care and your whole life will be unaffordable, shut down immediately, oh, forget this one, shut down your coal mines in about two minutes.
You see whats going on with the Second Amendment? They will destroy your Second Amendment. And the Democrats want to open our borders to a flood of deadly drugs and ruthless gangs. The fact is, Democrats have become the party of crime. They have. Republicans are the party of safety, and we are the party of jobs, jobs, jobs.
And were thrilled to be joined this evening by several terrific Kentucky Republicans. First of all, Kentucky Senate President Robert Stivers. Where is Robert? Where is Robert? Thank you. Congressman Tom Massie. Theyve got them spread all over the place. Wheres Tom? Doing a great job, thank you. Theyre doing a great job.
Congressman Hal Rogers. Thank you, Hal. Congressman James Comer, James Comer. Thanks, James. James, the whole group, they have been incredible, Ill tell you what. We got tax cuts, biggest tax cuts in the history of our country. We got so many other things. ANWR. We got rid of the individual mandate. We had Obamacare repealed and replaced.
We didnt get one Democrat vote, but well get it done. We had a little disappointment that night. A little bit of a disappointment. But its essentially done anyway, because when you get rid of the mandate, the individual mandate, its done. And what we have done with the remnants of Obamacare is weve kept your premiums down far below what anybody would have thought, through good management, through Secretary Alex Azar.
Now a friend of mine who has helped us so much, hes really smart, but I have to say his wife, the last couple of days, has become maybe the biggest star in the family. Shes been so -- I said, Rand, you have to get her on television more. Shes become the biggest star in the family. Yes. A man that really has been a friend of mine, a special friend, and hes really something.
Hes a great guy. Not everybody knows that, believe it or not. Not -- its like Mitch, not everybody knows that Mitch is a great guy. These are great people. Theres something that happens to you when you grow up in Kentucky, I guess, right? These are great people. But, you know, I call Rand a senator of tremendous common sense.
Thats a great compliment, common sense. And you know what? Hey, Rand, hes young, hes spry, run up here for a second, Rand. Come up here, Rand.
The president said hes tired. I could take 20 or 30 minutes, right? Now, Im going to tell you a very quick story about the president, and this shows how hes different than any politician and why youre all out here. I went to him with an idea on health care. I said, lets let individuals buy it in a group.
Let them join an association. Let competition drive prices down. The president said, its a great idea. What did he staff say? Oh, no, we could never do that. What did all the middle managers say? Oh, we could never do that. And you know what the president said? Make it so. And he did it.
But its true. We were talking about health care and Rand had this concept that -- he was so far advanced, even the experts didnt know, and after they checked, they said, you know, hes right. Hes right. Association health care, where you can team up with other companies, you can team up -- you go in, you get phenomenal pricing, you have no problems with crossing borders, so you get every insurance company, and its taken off, Rand, and that was Rands initial idea.
Thats true. And its doing really well. Inexpensive and terrific. And another man, a very special friend of mine, he was a great businessman, decided to win and run in Kentucky. By the way, does that sound familiar? This guy was a really successful guy and he saw things happening in Kentucky, and he said, you know, I can do a tremendous job, and he really has done.
And he doesnt want to be political. He wants to get the job done. This state is doing so well. You have your lowest unemployment numbers in history. You have your best incomes in history. You have jobs and companies flowing back in. And all of that wouldnt matter if I didnt like him, because if I didnt like him, Id say, forget about him, right?
But I like him a lot. Hes a terrific man and a terrific governor, Matt Bevin. Thank you, Matt. Thanks, Matt. So were here for a truly special guy. These are all special people. Something about this place. Boy, did we win by a lot. What did we win by, 38? Thirty-eight. We won by a lot. I have a feeling that Mitch McConnell in two years is going to do very good, very good.
Hes going to do very good. You know, he goes down as the greatest leader, in my opinion, in history. What weve done is incredible together. But hes better when Im president than he ever was when anyone else was president. Doing much better. But I want to introduce the leader that were all here for tonight.
And all of our congressmen know exactly what Im talking about. He has been so strong on all of the things that we stand for, tax cuts, regulation cuts. Every single event that we passed, and its record numbers of events, hes been at the forefront, and hes got a little bit of a tough race with a Nancy Pelosi-picked figure.
And I guess they did a little changing, and they did a lot of this and that, the Democrats do, thats the only way they can win. But Ill tell you what, Ive seen the -- you know, outside, you have 25,000, 35,000, some crazy number of people, and we set up movie screens. We set up beautiful movie screens.
And to those people outside, we love you. We love you. You have to see the lines, they go all the way back, many miles. But a lot of them stayed and theyre watching screens outside. I like your location better, do you agree? But this is a special guy, and normally I wouldnt make a trip, but here I have two reasons.
One was I love the state of Kentucky. And the other was that Andy Barr is a great congressman. Andy, come on up.
Mr. President, welcome to Kentuckys Sixth Congressional District. A swing district that two years ago, you sent a message to the nation because you won it by 15 points. And welcome to Madison County, a county, Mr. President, that you won by a whopping 32 points. Home of Eastern Kentucky University, where we are right now, the most pro-veteran university in America.
Home to workers who relocated from Eastern Kentucky, who value a paycheck to put food on the table, and, Mr. President, thank you for ending the war on coal. And Madison County, home of the Department of Criminal Justice Training, the Kentucky State Police, two awesome police departments, and Democrat Sheriff Mike Coyle, the sheriff of the year, who says, Mr. President, to keep the drugs out of our communities, we need to build the wall.
And when I first met you -- when I first met you, Mr. President, I told you about our drug problem in Kentucky, and you listened. And six months later, I was in the White House with you when you declared a national public health emergency to fight the drug epidemic, the opioid epidemic.
And we worked together and we funded the most significant investment to fight a drug crisis in American history. This president is a man of action. A man of action. Other people resist, but this president gets results. And so I want to turn it over to him, but I just want to remember one special night two years ago in Cleveland, the moment I knew this man would be the next president of the United States.
Remember? Remember what he said. He said that my opponent has a slogan, and that slogan is Im with her. Remember what he said next? What he said was, I have a different slogan, and that slogan is: Im with you, the American people. Mr. President, Im with you to fight for the American people!
Thank you. Thats pretty good. Now, you know, the one thing that Andy didnt say is that she paid a lot of money for that slogan. And the morning after I came up with my little feel on it, they changed the slogan. It was gone. It was gone. But we werent gone, because this was the single greatest movement in the history of American politics.
And our slogan was a great slogan. I think its the greatest slogan that anybody will ever come up with. Although in two years, we have a new one, you know what that is. Ours is make America great again. Look at all these hats. And at the rate were going, its going to happen fast, its called keep America great.
Its got to be that. Right? So Im here for Andy Barr. And thats a vote for safe communities, strong borders, and Kentucky values. Andy Barr. A vote for Andys opponent, I had to do a little checking, whos he running against? Who? This is an extreme liberal named Amy McGrath. Chosen by Nancy Pelosi, Maxine Waters, thats a real beauty... and the radical Democrat mob.
Now, Amy supports a socialist takeover of your health care, which by the way means your taxes are going to triple if youre lucky. She supports open borders. She needs the tax hikes to cover the through-the-roof garbage that you want no part of. And she wants to immediately decimate your now-thriving coal industry.
So if you want to stop Nancy Pelosi from becoming speaker of the House -- no, we cant do that. That will not be good. Then you have to get out and vote for Andy Barr, a great man. Great man. You know, actually, I must tell you, Kentucky, youre always involved at the middle of politics. The election of Andy is a very important thing, could make the difference between unbelievable continued success and, frankly, failure, where we fight for two more years with these people, with these obstructionists.
So its really an important race. It could be the congressman up -- I dont know if theyre worried about them. Theyre so far ahead in their races. We dont have to talk about them anymore, right? We dont have to talk about them. We dont have to talk about them, but we were talking backstage, and they said it. This could be the most important race there is. So get out and vote.
We cant let this happen. A majority of House Democrats have already signed up for socialist health care. By the way, it doesnt work anywhere in the world. Just so you understand. It doesnt work. Its good if you dont mind waiting like five weeks to see a doctor. They come from socialist countries. Frankly, they come from Canada, because they want to use our doctors.
They come from all over the world. And were making it now better. And they want to destroy everything thats been built, all of that great foundation. They want to outlaw the private insurance plans of 2.4 million Kentucky residents. And some of those plans are fantastic and inexpensive. The Democrat plan would obliterate Medicare and terminate Medicare Advantage for nearly 250,000 Kentucky seniors who depend on it. Republicans want to protect Medicare, and we will, for our great seniors who have earned it and who have paid for it. And Republicans only will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
Were going to protect it. The new platform of the Democrat Party is radical socialism and its open borders. Democrats want to abolish ICE and they want to turn America into a giant sanctuary for criminal aliens and MS-13 thugs. And dont kid yourself, thats whats going to happen. And they want to get rid of ICE.
They think ICE isnt nice. Did you ever see what theyre dealing with? First of all, theyre incredible patriots. They have a job that nobody in this group wants. They go in there and they meet the most vile, most vicious people on earth like its a day at the office. You dont want to do it. You dont want to -- yeah, you might do it. This guy might do it. You want a job?
Ill get it to you with a -- look at this guy, this guy will do it. Im looking at -- he might do it. You might do it. But you dont want to do it. They go in there and they liberate towns. These people came in by the thousands, and were taking them out by the thousands. Theyre getting out. Theyre getting out.
Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens. And Republicans -- and you know this, you know this -- Republicans stand proudly with the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol and law enforcement. You know that. One by one, we are finding the illegal alien criminals, predators, drug dealers, MS-13 killers, and we are sending them back home.
We are liberating Americas cities and towns. Thats what were doing. The only immigration policy Democrats support is catch and release. How about that one? You catch a criminal thug, you take their name, and then you release them, say please show up in five years to court. Now, number one, its ridiculous.
Number two, they never show up. What a mess. We have the dumbest immigration laws in the world. The world laughs at us, but were getting them changed. We need some more Republicans. We need some votes. And if you elect Republicans this November, we will pass legislation to end catch and release. We will -- Ill tell you, have you heard the other one?
Right? Lottery. Lottery. Lottery. OK? Names, you pick them out, coming to the United States. Now, let me ask you, these countries set up lotteries. Do you really believe theyre giving us their finest? No. This is a lottery. This was Chuck Schumers special deal for this country. And we need to elect people so we get rid of it. We got -- maybe just get rid of it. How crazy.
How crazy. How -- and then you have chain migration. You know what that is, right? So we had a man, horrible person, the west side in Manhattan, where I live, where I love, right along the Hudson River. Hes driving a car down this roadway where the speed limit is 35. Hes going about 70. And he decides to make a right turn into a beautiful park that goes along the river with lots of people.
Many people were killed. Nobody ever talks about the people that were horribly injured. They lost legs, they lost arms. These are people that were running. They want to keep themselves in shape. They were working out. They were walking hand-in-hand together. Theyre dead. Theyre horribly wounded. Many will never, ever recover.
Now, what happens? What happened to him? It will be years of litigation. He came in, and then he took chain migration, and he brought his mother, and his father, and his brother, and his sister, and his aunt, and his grandfather. None of them working. It ended up being approximately 22 people who came in. Its called a chain.
Isnt that wonderful? A chain. And were stuck with them. Were stuck with these people. And I dont want a chain. I want people to come into our country on a merit-based system. And I want them to help all of the great companies that are moving back into the United States. Theyre moving to Michigan, theyre moving to Ohio, theyre moving to Pennsylvania, theyre moving to North and South Carolina.
Theyre coming in. Theyre moving to Florida. And, yes, theyre moving into Kentucky. And with what weve done, weve become so successful that we need people to come in with all these companies that are coming in. But we want great people that love our country, that respect our country, and that want to work.
This election is about safety and it is about prosperity. Since the last election -- and these are numbers that the fakers back there, the fake news, would never have allowed me to say. Theyd never in a million years, if I ever said this during the campaign, they wouldve had headlines. Weve created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps.
You know what that means? The second, food stamps. It means, number one, we get rid of an unbelievable cost. You wouldnt even believe it. But you know what else? You got a lot of happy people that are working. Its a great thing. Its a great thing. Weve added nearly 600,000 manufacturing jobs. Remember, manufacturings never going to come back?
Never going to come back, remember? The previous administration, oh, you think thats going to happen? Youd need a magic wand. Well, I guess we had the magic wand. We had the magic wand. And these are great jobs and these are important jobs. Manufacturing jobs, companies pouring back in. Manufacturing. African-American unemployment has reached its lowest level ever recorded in history.
African-American poverty has reached its lowest level in history. Hispanic-American and Asian-American unemployment has reached its lowest level in history. I cant believe Im still saying this. I am so sorry, I apologize to the women in the room. Remember, I got 52 percent -- remember, they kept saying, hes not -- the fake news -- thats right.
Remember he said -- they were all saying he will not do well with women? Wow, did we do well with women. Did we do well. Fake news. We did really well with women. But, unfortunately, the womens unemployment, Mitch, is not at a historic low. Its only the best number in 65 years. We let down women. We let down women.
Sixty-five years, 3.6 percent. As the charts grow just a little bit, it will be historic very soon. The only reason to vote Democrat is if youre tired of winning. You know about winning. You really know about winning. Those horses win. You people are winners. Im just afraid that Kentucky is winning too much.
Youre going to send Matt Bevin to see Rand Paul and Mitch McConnell, and theyre going to all come to the Oval Office to see me, and theyre going to say, Mr. President, we cant do it anymore. Kentucky is winning too much. They cant do it. They dont like it. They dont want to do it anymore.
Theyre going to say, were winning so much, we just cant stand it. Im going to say, Mitch and Matt and Rand, Im sorry. Were going to keep winning. Were going to win more and more and more. Were going to keep winning. Im sorry, folks. And I will send them happily back to Kentucky. Youre winning a lot.
We won today. We won today with the great pastor, Pastor Brunson. Last week, I announced that we are replacing the horror show, one of the worst trade deals ever made, known as NAFTA, with an incredible, brand-new U.S. Mexico-Canada agreement called the USMCA, USMCA. And even the Democrats are saying, wow, what a good deal that is. They cant believe it. We actually, Mitch, get bipartisan support.
Can you believe it? Although, if its too good, they wont support it. Thats the problem. No, I will say, even Chuck Schumer liked it. Can you believe that one? He said thats a good deal. Weve taken the toughest ever action to crack down on Chinas abusive trade practices. China -- and I have great respect for China, we all do, and I have great respect and like him for President Xi, the absolute head -- this is an absolute head of China.
But you know what? Theyve been making $300 billion to $500 billion a year, taking it out of our country. We have rebuilt China. And I dont blame China. They can get away -- I blame our past leaders, because they should never have let it happen. I dont blame China. And thanks to our strong trade and economic policies, Brady Industries recently broke ground on a new billion-dollar aluminum mill that will create up to 1,500 jobs right next to Ashland, Kentucky.
You know where were talking about, right? Right? Ashland. Under Republican leadership, we also passed the biggest package of tax cuts and tax reforms in the history of our country. Bigger than any have ever been passed. We have taken historic action to reduce the price of prescription drugs. You saw three weeks ago, Pfizer, Novartis, a lot of drug companies announced a very substantial increase.
Then I said to Secretary Alex Ocasa -- and I said to Alex Azar, this is no good. This is no good. We got to do something. I want to call them. And I called the head of Pfizer, big company -- I guess like the biggest -- big, big drug company. I called Novartis. I called the heads of these companies, and they said, sir, sir, we will immediately drop the price back to where it was.
Did you ever hear of that? And Rand Paul, its the first time I realized how powerful it was to be the president of the United States. No, they -- they reduced -- now, I -- and by the way, I kid, but I do, I respect that they did that. I really appreciate it. And now because of what Secretary Azar is doing, youre going to see drug pricing, prescription drugs going down.
You know, we have countries -- we have countries on this planet, the exact same pill, the exact same prescription, made in the exact same factory or plant, in Canada and in other countries all over the world, is much less, sometimes 50 percent, sometimes more than that, its much less than what Americans pay.
Were getting rid of the middleman. Were doing a number -- Im going to be hated so much by some people in this country that made a fortune. But were getting drug prices way down. And we started it last Friday with the signing of two bills. And something that the congressman really helped me with, all of them in the room and Andy, in particular, we help right now get critically ill, terminal patients access to life-saving treatments.
We just passed right to try. Right to try. I hope nobody has to use it in this room. But this is a person whos terminally ill -- we have the greatest drug companies and the greatest research in the world by far, nobody close. But we have a pipeline that would take 12 to 15 years to get it approved and through the pipeline.
We have that down, I think, to four years and maybe less, but we have to be careful. But if we had something that really showed great promise toward a problem that somebody had, whos terminally ill, for 44 years, theyve been trying to get this passed. They couldnt. Not as easy as it sounds. Between the insurance companies, the liabilities, the country itself, the lawsuits.
So I got everybody in a room, we got to get life -- this is really important stuff. Excuse me, how many of you know friends? If they have money, they travel all over the world, begging and looking for a cure. They want hope. If they dont have money, they go home, they have no hope. And we got right to try passed a month-and-a-half ago and already its had an incredible impact.
Incredible impact, 44 years. So now a patient is terminally ill, we have something thats looking really good, we make them sign a document, very important document, and they go in and we work with them and we see if we can help them. And weve had some incredible results already. So I just want to thank Andy Barr and all of the congressmen here and Mitch and Rand, because we got it passed.
We got it passed. But to me that was a big thing. Many, many, many years they worked on it, they couldnt get it done. We also passed veterans choice, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor instead of waiting online for 12 days, for 24 days, for 38 days. We have our great veterans -- were doing a great job with our veterans -- we have our -- but this was one of the most important things -- because theyd be waiting in line for sometimes months if you can believe it. We had people waiting in line and they werent very sick.
By the time they saw a doctor, they were terminally ill. Now, if theres a line, if theres a way, because we have great doctors in the V.A. Thats one thing we -- Ill tell you, everybody tells me. You cant get to them. Now, if theres a wait, you go to a local doctor, you get yourself taken care of, and we pay for the bill.
We pay for the bill. That was another one. That was another one. Took over 40 years. I used to say to people, why dont we do that? I thought I was so smart. I said, listen, I got a great idea. These lines are terrible, 28 days, 30 days. I got a great idea. Its the greatest idea I think Ive ever had. Were going to have them go to a private doctor instead of waiting on line.
Sir, weve been trying to get that passed for 40 years. Oh, youve heard about it before? Everybody heard -- they couldnt get it passed. But were going at getting things passed. We got it passed. Rand and Mitch and Andy, we got it passed. And the landmark V.A. accountability law to ensure anyone who mistreats our veterans will be held accountable.
Jim, you mistreated our veteran, Jim. Jim, youre fired, get out. We just secured $700 billion and $716 billion, two years, to fully rebuild the American military. Bigger, stronger, more powerful than ever before, and we are giving our warriors their largest pay raise in over a decade. And at my direction -- and we need Rand and we need Mitchs help, but its really popular -- let them know how popular this is -- you know, its all about space.
Its all about space. Defense, offense, everything, its going to soon be all about space. So let Rand and Mitch know about this. Ready? At my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American armed forces known as the Space Force. Now they have to do it. I put them on the spot.
I put them on the spot. Now, they have to do it. No, its very popular. One of the biggest applause I get wherever I go is when I talk about the Space Force. And, by the way, China, already started. Russia, already started. Theyve got to start, but we have the greatest people in the world. We make the greatest equipment in the world.
We make the greatest rockets and missiles and tanks and ships in the world. I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal. You know, when I came to office, weeks before I was given rundowns of whats happening, and Iran was just a question of when will they take over the entire Middle East?
Theyre not thinking about that anymore, folks. Theyre not thinking about it anymore. Theyve got a little disaster going. They have riots in the street. Their currency is shot. And theyll be coming to us some day, probably not too far out, and theyll say wed like to make a deal. And thats fine. Thats good.
But a real deal. Not the joke of a deal that was made by the past administration. And we have recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Right? Together we have made extraordinary progress, but were just getting started. If you vote to elect Republican House and Republican Senate, we will continue to cut your taxes, cut your regulations, and raise your incomes very, very substantially.
We, unlike the Democrats, will protect Medicare and protect Social Security. Remember what I said during the debates? We will protect them. We will defend your Second Amendment and protect your right to free speech and religious liberty. With your help, Mitch McConnell, Rand Paul, and all of the people that work so well with us will continue to confirm incredible pro-Constitution judges, not radical far-left judges who will rewrite your Constitution and replace your Kentucky values.
Not going to happen. Eighty-four judges -- think of that, its a record -- its a record -- and we actually have a lot to go, 84 judges approved. What a difference. Going to be, by the time we finish, maybe 50 percent of the court. Do you know what that is? Fifty percent. We will fully secure the border.
We will pass Kates law, stop sanctuary cities, end the visa lottery, end chain migration, and we will keep the criminals, drug dealers, and terrorists the hell out of our country. We will lift millions more of our citizens from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity.
But to achieve this future, to continue the greatest movement in the history of our country and maybe of any country, you need to vote Republican. For years, you watched as your leaders apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America. We are standing up for your values. We are standing up for the great people of Kentucky.
And we are proudly standing up for our national anthem. On November 6th, I need you to get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors, get your coworkers, and get out and vote for Andy Barr. Great man. A vote for a Republican Congress is a vote for more jobs, more wealth, and more products made right here in the good, old USA.
Its about to respect our laws and to respect the heroes of law enforcement. They are heroes. And a vote for Republicans is a vote to reject the Democrat politics of hatred, anger, and division, and to celebrate the greatness and the glory of being an American. It is not up to the media, its not up to the pundits, its up to you to decide your own fate.
You have the power with your vote to defend your family, defend your country, defend your values, your faith, and to defend your dignity. Loyal citizens like you helped build this country. And together, we are taking back our country, returning power to the American people. This great state was settled by really -- I mean, how tough, how smart -- by tough, tough men and even tougher women, by the way.
But it was settled by tough men, pioneer women who braved the wilderness and defied the dangers to build a life and a home. They didnt have a lot of money. They didnt have a lot of luxury. But they all had one thing in common: They loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God.
These courageous Kentucky patriots did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others try to erase their legacy and destroy our proud American heritage. For the sake of our freedom, and for the sake of our children, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win.
We will not bend. We will not break. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never back down. We will never surrender. And we will always fight on to glorious victory, because we are American, and our hearts bleed red, white, and blue. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.
