Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Speaks at The Governors Ball|February 26, 2017
Thank you very much everybody. I want to just congratulate the First Lady on having done a really beautiful job. The room, they say, has never looked better, but who knows? Im sure its looked very good many times.
So Melania, congratulations. I will also want to congratulate and thank a truly great Vice President of the United States and his wonderful wife Karen. And wherever you are Mike, just stand up just for a second.
So I can say that after 4 weeks, its been a lot of fun. But weve accomplished almost everything weve started out to accomplish. The borders are stricter, tighter. We are doing a really good job... General Kelly has done a fantastic job militarily.
As you know we have a fantastic team. We have an A team. And Im getting some good reports. There are some big problems in the world, you know that very well. But were very happy with the way things are working, and again weve made a lot of promises over the last 2 years and many of those promises already are kept. So, were very honored by that and...  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
I just want to salute and toast the Governors... the great Governors of the United States. They have done an amazing job, such an easy job you have. So easy
But you have done a fantastic job and your families and wives and... everybodys here. I mean Ive seen daughters come tonight. Ive seen wives, Ive seen... all I know is everybodys lovely.
And were gonna have a wonderful evening, and tomorrow were gonna meet and were going to discuss things, like perhaps, health care will come up. Perhaps. And I think weve made a lot of progress on that.
And were gonna have a speech on Tuesday night. And were going to be speaking very specifically about a very complicated subject. Everybodys different. Every state is different. And different requirements. But I think we have something thats going to really be excellent.
And as most of you know, the Obamacare has had tremendous problems. I wont say in front of the Democrats, Ill just say it to the Republicans. It doesnt work. But were going to have it fixed and were going to repeal and replace.
And I think youre gonna see something very, very special. And for all of you, and even tonight, because we have Tom Price with us. If you see something or want to discuss it, we dont have to discuss all friendly stuff. We can discuss a little bit of the health care. We might as well start.
But tomorrow morning were going to meet and have some pretty big sessions on healthcare and other things, whatevers on your mind. So I hear this is a record number of governors, 46. And thats the highest number that have ever shown up for this evening.  So, with that, I would like to toast the great, great governors of the United States, thank you.
