Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Geneva, OH|October 27, 2016
Thank you very much. Boy, what a crowd! What a crowd!
And youve got thousands and thousands of people standing outside trying to get in. Its amazing.
Its amazing. And you know, when I came over I was just watching the television, I watched one of the commentators say that we have a few thousand people here, a few thousand. You know a few thousand people? That means 3,000 people. He said, yeah, we have a few thousand people. And I said, oh, these people, forget it. This is not a few thousand. To me, a few thousand is 3,000. This is no 3,000, this is 13,000 or 15,000, but this is no 3,000.
And this is 20,000 if we get them in, so well try getting them in. But lets start, right?
Thank you, everybody, for being here. In 12 days we are going to win Ohio and we are going to win back the White House, believe me.
Its about time. A brand-new poll -- I love the good polls when theyre accurate. Even if theyre against me, which arent so many against us, right, if theyre accurate, but a brand-new poll just came out from Remington Research, highly respected, has us 4 points up in Ohio.
And were leading in Florida and were leading in Iowa and were leading in a lot of places. Theyre starting to get very nervous, the press.
The dishonest media, worlds most dishonest people. Im trying to figure out, who is more dishonest? Crooked Hillary Clinton or the media?
Im not sure, thats a close one.
Early voting, right? Everybody, did you vote? Did you vote yet?
Early voting is underway, so make sure to get out and vote, right? Whos voted? Who has voted?
Whoa! Thats great. So get out and vote. And you know, November 8th is your last day, but if you do it before then, thats good, too.
And I love Ohio. I worked in Ohio.
You know, I worked here at the very beginning of my career I worked in Ohio in Cincinnati. And Ill tell you what, I love the people of Ohio.
And I was right next to Kentucky and Id go across the line, I love the people of Kentucky, theyve been so great, too, right? Yeah, come on.
Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track, which it certainly is. Who are the other 25 percent? Who are these people? Twenty-five percent think were on the right track? Were going to fix it and were going to get our country back on the right track very, very fast.
Real change begins with immediately -- immediately -- replacing and repealing Obamacare!" ""eal change begins with"
Disaster. Its been a disaster from the day it was approved. It should have never been approved. It was approved by lies. You can keep your doctor: lie! You can keep your plan: lie! Twenty-eight times he said keep your doctor, keep your plan, all lies.
Lies!
It has just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double-digit hike in Obamacare" premiums
... oh, dont smile, because you know what? Its going to happen to you, too. Its going to happen. It is a total catastrophe, Obamacare" in this country. And Hillary Clinton wants to keep it and make it even more expensive. And its never going to work. Even Bill Clinton admitted that "Obamacare" is the craziest thing in the world where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. No good. Job-killing "Obamacare" is just one more way the system is rigged. Our system is rigged. Clinton wants to double-down on "Obamacare
Lock her up!
Youre great.
Just this year, Hillary Clinton declared that Obamacare" is one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama
And this is who youre going to have as president? I dont think so.
No!
Shes got bad judgment. Remember Bernie Sanders? He said shes got bad judgment; she does.
Here in Ohio, another five insurance companies are dropping out of Obamacare." Theyre out
Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington.
Crooked Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 e-mails after a congressional subpoena, lied to Congress under oath and then made 13 iPhones disappear, some with a hammer. Unbelievable.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Who here has gotten rid of their phones with a hammer, anybody in the room? Boy, this place is packed. That person. Why, home come? What business are you in, sir? Dont tell me, I dont want to know.
Now in another new report, were learning that Hillary Clintons State Department wasted hundreds of millions of dollars of your hard- earned tax pay spending on a wild bunch of things. Here are some of the kinds of shocking revelations about Hillarys spending habits. These are all State Department expenditures during her tenure: $5.4 million on a no-bid contract for crystal stemware; $167.5 million on cost overruns at the embassy in Afghanistan; over $200 million on mostly unused police training facilities in Iraq; $79,000 to buy copies of President Obamas books, wonderful, wonderful deal; $53 to polish marble at the Brazilian embassy, thats a great deal; $630,000 to try and make the State -- oh, this is a good one -- to try and make the State Department Facebook pages more popular.
Doesnt she understand you need personality to do that, not money. You need personality.
Not a lot of personality there, even though shed get millions of dollars to make speeches. I tell you what, that wasnt a good deal.
Two hundred and sixteen thousand dollars to hire an event planner for a 4th of July party in Madrid; $88,000 to send three comedians to India. These are the things. More than $250,000 to purchase art in Mexico, where theyre taking our companies and our jobs, now were buying art.
Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!
We are going to build the wall 100 percent and Mexico is going to pay for the wall, dont worry about it.
And $410,000 to purchase art in China. The elites in government, like Hillary Clinton, believe theyre entitled to do whatever they want. Hillary Clinton has never earned an honest dollar. Well, I think thats really, you know, hey, lets put it this way. What shes done to our country is a disgrace and she should be ashamed of herself.
She lives the high life at your expense, making money off the rigged system, and it is a rigged system. Are you starting to agree with me about the rigged system?
This is an election between the small handful of people who benefit from the corrupt system and the great majority of American citizens who are the victims of that same corruption. Those who benefit from the corruption will say and do anything to keep it the way it is, they dont want change.
Washington insiders, including the corrupt media...
... they are so dishonest, look down on hardworking people who make a very honest and, you know, really a fought-for living. And its tough. Its tough when our country allows your companies to all leave and fire everybody. Pretty tough, isnt it?
The corrupt political class takes pride in ripping off the American people. Now these same elites, the people who brought us every disastrous foreign war, all of these horrible wars that they never win -- we go into wars, they never win the wars, they just go on forever. Disastrous. And then theyve brought us these horrible trade deals, are spending millions to try to put Hillary in the White House so she can keep the deal going on and keep what we really love about our country, the greatness of our country, from the American people. Its not going to happen longer.
November 8th, everybody.
Hillary Clinton said she left the White House dead broke and now theyre worth over $200 million. They didnt create anything, produce anything, invent anything. All they did was sell favors, sell access and sell out the American worker.
Uranium!
Uranium is right. Uranium to Russia, he just said uranium, uranium to Russia. Hillary even sold out our nations security with her illegal private server, knowing full well it would put you and your family in danger. As moms across this nation put their children to bed each night with a prayer for safety and peace, Hillary was knowingly putting those same families at risk by putting our confidential secrets on this illegal, private server. But for Hillary, it seems anything is OK as long as it increases whatever it was she was looking for.
Im running to put a stop to the theft of our great American prosperity.
Were going to do it. Im running to put an end to corruption. Im running to expose the crimes of our ruling class and give this country back to the middle class and to the people, to the people.
Hillary pushes trade deals, like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, that enrich her donors and strip the jobs out of your community. And then she says at the debate, remember, she never called it the gold standard, thats what she said. But at the next debate, which I dont want to brag, but I won the debates, OK? Im not going to brag.
It wasnt hard. She was very tired at the end of those debates, did you notice? The scenes of her going to the car were not pretty.
She wants to raise your taxes, even if she used those taxes to spend lavishly on wasteful projects at the State Department. She pledges open borders, that means there goes your country.
There goes your country, open borders. In secret to her donors, even as it causes the loss of millions of American jobs and thousands of American lives, you see whats happening in terms of safety and security.
She talks about the values of tolerance, yet proposes to issue massive numbers of visas to places, and think of this, visas all over, to places where women and gays and minorities and horribly oppressed and brutalized. I mean, you see whats happening. Countries are pouring money into her and her husband and you see what some of these countries do to women and gays and to so many others. And she should give that money back to those countries.
But she takes money from these regimes without apology and doesnt worry about how extremism brought onto our shores will affect the quality of life for you or your family. Hillary has access to the best doctors in the world, but wants you and your children to live under Obamacare" which is a catastrophe. ""ut she takes money from these regimes witho"
And she doesnt want to repeal it and she doesnt want to replace it, she wants it to get bigger and more expensive.
Im running to end the rule of this corrupt ruling class.
And I was, I have to tell you, you know, I was on the other side of this equation, folks. I didnt need to do this. I did not need to do this. But I love this country, I love the people of this country, and we did it. And you know what? Its a movement like theyve never seen before.
Never. And were going to give government back to the people.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to hear the words Im about to say. When we win...
You know, Ive been saying if we win" because I want to be nice
... we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.
Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp! Drain the swamp!
So cute. I see this young boy here and hes screaming drain the swamp!" Hes this big
Hes learning young, learning young about our government. Very cute.
You know, I didnt like the expression. I started it, what, a week ago, right? Drain the swamp. And I said I dont like it. And the people were going crazy, they loved it. All of a sudden I like it. Its like Frank Sinatra was a special guy, a difficult guy, but he had songs he didnt like, but they became his biggest songs, so he liked them. And drain the swamp
At the core of my contract, and thats a contract with America and the American people, is a plan and our plan to bring back our jobs.
We are living through the single-greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Look at whats happened to not only Ohio, everybody, everything, our country. Ohio has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by his lovely wife, Hillary.
Weve lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster. The steel industry has been hit so hard. U.S. Steel in Lorain laid off at least 600 workers in 2015, and thats after years of doing lots of layoffs. Republic Steel laid off over 200 workers this year. A Trump administration will immediately begin, and I have to do this, we will immediately begin renegotiating NAFTA...
... and if we dont get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better and stronger and fairer deal for our workers and our country.
We will also stand up to the Chinese currency manipulation, of which theyre grand masters, and we will stop separately, because China right now is not in Trans-Pacific Partnership, but they want to be in it at a later date when they find out how good it is, they want to wait. We will become a rich nation again.
But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS onto the world with the vacuum. Look, she has created with Obama the way that we -- we should have never been in Iraq, but we should have never ever gotten out the way they got out. And the next time we attack whoever were going to attack, maybe we could use a little bit of -- whats the best word? Surprise, right? Maybe we could use a little bit of, like, the element of surprise, would that be possible?
Instead of four months ago, three months ago, two months ago, were going into Mosul in three months and were going to -- in the meantime, hey, look, these people are tough and theyre smart. Were going in to get the leaders because the leaders of ISIS they thought lived in Mosul and they probably did. But they were gone about, what, 12 seconds after they heard? They were gone.
So there we lose that. In addition, the fighters have really trenched in, make it much tougher. The element of surprise, the element of surprise, so sad. And its a tough battle. These people are using human shields, theyre fighting hard, theyve been preparing. And Ive been seeing four months ago, then three months ago, then two months ago, they say were going into Mosul. Then a week ago I heard well be attacking sometime tomorrow. What the hell is wrong?
I always say, you know, I have great respect for General George Patton, although today hed have a hard time being a general because he wasnt exactly politically correct. He was a little on the rough side.
But could you imagine? Hes been known to slap a soldier who was not exactly the kind of soldier he liked. In other words, a soldier that wasnt so brave. He had been known to slap. Now, if that happened here? Oh, boy, can you imagine if that would happen today? But his people loved him and his people would fight for him. And he wants to take care of his people because he loved his people.
Well fight for you!
Thank you. He just said well fight for you. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. But he wouldnt subject his people to announcing four and three and two and one month and then a week and then two days, were going in tomorrow. This is crazy. This is crazy.
And he wouldnt subject because these were smart people, these were great military men that didnt have -- well, I mean, look, they had different presidents than what we have. What we have is somebody that honestly he doesnt know what the hell hes doing.
Doesnt know what hes doing. Dont forget, we shouldnt even be fighting for Mosul. You know, we had Mosul, but when we left they took it over, so now we have to go get it again. But we had Mosul. You know that. We left in such a dumb way, we just left, and then ISIS came and took it over. Remember, the junior varsity came and took over, right? So now were getting it again.
But youre not going to get the people and youre not going to get the leaders because theyre gone long ago. So we have to be smarter, we need people that know whats going on with life. And we dont have that right now.
Thank you. Thank you.
We need Donald Trump.
Now Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming into our country...
... over and above the thousands and thousands that are coming in under President Obama, who, by the way, should stop campaigning for Hillary Clinton, get to the office, create jobs, help our military, help our vets who have been horribly treated.
I mean, this guys campaigning. Thats all he likes to do is campaign. Boy, oh, boy Ive got more people campaigning against me. Ive got Biden, he said Id like to take him behind the gym. Oh, I dream of that. Biden.
You know what you do with Biden? You go like this and hed fall over.
Tough guy, Mr. Tough Guy, Mr. Tough Guy. Just a little bit of a poof and hes gone. Another beauty.
Can you imagine if I ever made that statement? Donald Trump is a bully, he threatened Vice President Biden. Donald Trump is a bully, can you imagine? But he can say it, everyone thought, oh, that was a wonderful statement. Oh, oh, that was a -- give me a break. These people are the worlds most -- they are so bad. Biden. I dream about Biden.
Boy, would that be easy. That would be an easy function.
A Trump administration will suspend the Syrian refugee program.
And I want to build safe havens, but we have to use money from the Gulf states. They have plenty of money and theyre not doing the job, but theyve got a lot of money. But I want to see safe havens, were all in the same thing, but we cant take people in this country who may do tremendous harm to us someday.
When you look at whats going on in Germany and Paris and all over France, you look at whats going on in Belgium, you look at whats going on throughout the world, and were taking people in by the tens of thousands? Hillary wants to increase it by 550 percent.
That alone means, frankly, you shouldnt be voting for Hillary Clinton. Obamacare
Taxes, she wants to raise your taxes, Im lowering your taxes. Believe me, this country cant take a tax hike. So let me state this and state it very clearly. If Im elected president, Im going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
Were going to keep them out. Were not going to be reading about -- theyre not going to be reading about us in a hundred years and talking about the new version of the Trojan horse. OK? You know what that means, right? No going to happen.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
And, yes, we will build a wall and, yes, Mexico will pay for the wall.
Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. The victims include 60-year-old Margaret Kostelnik, murdered in cold blood by an illegal immigrant right here in Ohio. You know the situation, you know the story. You know the story of Margaret.
Earlier that day, her killer tried to rape a 14-year-old girl and shot another woman in the arm while she was with her children in a nearby park. Police encountered the man more than three weeks before the crime spree, but federal authorities acting under Obama guidelines refused to take him into custody, despite the fact that people were begging them to take this man off the streets. They wouldnt do it.
I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers and the gang members preying on our citizens. When I win, your long reign of terror will come to a crashing and very unglorious end.
We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense cuts and rebuild our badly depleted military, the greatest people on earth.
We will build new advanced aircraft at places like Wright Patterson Air Force Base.
And we will change our foreign policy. Hillary Clintons policies in Iraq, in Syria, in Libya threw the Middle East into total mass turmoil. Now Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria in conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia, which could very well lead to World War III. I honestly think shes unstable. If you look at what shes saying, I actually believe shes unstable.
To all Americans I say it is time for new leadership.
Weve spent now $6 trillion in the Middle East. Weve spent, think of this, $6 trillion. We could have rebuilt our country twice. If our presidents went to the beach or, in Obamas case, if he went out and played golf every single day without making any decisions, we would have been far better off.
Lets compare my contract with the American voter against Hillarys agenda. Hillary will raise taxes as much as 45 and even 50 percent. Thats just what you need. Just what you need is to pay even more taxes.
Highest-taxed nation in the world. My contract calls for the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.
Hillary will massively expand regulation and shut down American energy. My contract eliminates every job-killing regulation.
And were going to put our miners back to work and our steelworkers back to work.
Hillary opposes school choice and wants federal bureaucrats to make education choices instead of the parents. My contract guarantees school choice and puts an end to Common Core. We bring our education local.
Hillary oversaw massive cuts to the military budget and said the problems at the V.A. are not widespread. Oh, they are really widespread.
The veterans have been treated so badly, so badly. She said theyre not widespread. Right? Tell that to a veteran that waits in line for nine days and cant see a doctor. My contract reverses the defense cuts, rebuilds our military and gives veterans the right to see the doctor of their choice if they cannot see a veterans doctor.
Hillary attacks the integrity of police officers. You see that all the time. My contract calls for funding, training and supporting the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
Hillary wants to release more violent offenders from prison, even as murder rates almost 8 percent in Ohio, did you know that, and have the largest one-year increase nationwide in 45 years. Did you know that? You dont hear that from the press. The biggest -- think of it, the biggest increase in murder in 45 years. You dont hear that. My contract calls for a national plan to reduce violent crime and treats safety as a civil right. It is a civil right.
Hillary Clinton wants to effectively abolish the Second Amendment and overturn the Supreme Courts ruling.
Its a big one. You saw her the other night at the debate. I dont even think she understood the question, talking about the Heller case.
Who won the debate, by the way?
You did!
I think that was an easy one. That was easy.
My contract calls for saving the Second Amendment and protecting the right to keep and bear arms.
We have to.
Hillary wants immediate amnesty, open borders and virtually unlimited immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world. My plan ends illegal immigration. By the way, people come into our country, we have strong borders, we will have the wall, were going to stop the drugs, but were going to have big, beautiful doors in that wall and people are coming into our country, a lot of people, but theyre going to come in legally.
And were going to suspend immigration from terror-prone regions. Hillary wants radical judges who will impose their personal opinions from the bench. My contract calls for the appointment of judges who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Hillary wants to go even further than Obama on illegal executive action. I will terminate every single illegal Obama executive order and will restore the constitutional rule...
We will restore the constitutional rule of law in this country we have to have or we dont have a country.
Finally, Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things cant change and wants our lives to revolve around Washington, D.C.
Im asking you to dream big, to push for bold change and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love of this great country.
Im asking you to renew your faith in the American dream.
We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests. We are fighting to bring us all together as Americans. We are just -- this is such a divided country. This is such a divided country. We are living now in a very divided country. Our country is going to come together with love. Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag.
Trump! Trump! Trump!
Once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people.
So were going to work on a lot of things. Were going to work on coming together. Were going to work on our military. Were going to work on our inner cities. The inner cities need help, folks. Theyre so dangerous, theyre crime-ridding, theyre so dangerous, there are no jobs. Theres essentially no education. Were going to work on our inner cities and make them great for African-American communities that are suffering in the inner cities. Suffering.
Were going to work on our jobs. Were not letting companies say everybodys fired, were moving to Mexico or wherever they want to move. Were going to make our product, were going to sell it back into the United States, no problem. No, well, there is going to be a problem. Theres going to be a big problem. So I said they want to do that, I dont call it retribution, I call it consequence. The consequence is, you want to let all of these great people from Ohio and from North Carolina and from Pennsylvania and all of these other great places, you want to let them go and you want to leave and you want to go build this beautiful plant? You go ahead. But its a 35 percent tax, as I said. And just 35 percent.
And, folks, and, folks, its such a problem. Were losing our companies. Were losing our financial, were losing everything. Were losing our jobs. Were losing our great jobs. You see it. Even the other side admits were losing our good jobs. Our good jobs are going to other countries. So were going to stop it. Its not even hard to stop it. And when they know there is that kind of a consequence, theyre not leaving, theyre staying. They may go to a different state, and thats different, right? But theyre staying, theyre staying in our country, theyre not leaving. And when they want to leave, thats OK, too, because theyre going to pay a very, very big price, right?
A friend of mine builds plants and factories, but he builds plants and hes the biggest in the world. And he told me whats happening in Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world, some of the biggest plants in the world, some of the most incredible plants that hes ever built. And I said, how are we doing in the United States? And he looks like, eh, not so great. Were going to change it, folks. We have to change it. I want Apple to be building factories in the United States, and plants, so they can make their product in the United States, not in China, not in Vietnam, not in all of the countries, and other companies, other of our great companies.
We dont make things anymore. We dont win anymore. We dont win anymore. We dont win with health care. We dont win with ISIS. We cant beat ISIS. We dont win anymore and we dont make things anymore.
Its going to change November 8th. Youve got to get out November 8th.
And youre going to say that this was -- oh, thats a beautiful, big sign. Now, those are fans.
And by the way, I just spoke to our future vice president and hes OK. Do you know he was in a big accident with a plane? The plane skidded off the runway and was pretty close to grave, grave danger. But I just spoke to Mike Pence and hes fine.
He got out, everybodys fine. Everybodys fine. But what a great decision it was to get Mike Pence. What a great guy he is.
What a great job hes doing.
So youre going to remember this evening and youre going to remember, more importantly, your vote, whether its on November 8th or sooner, and youre going to say it was the most important vote youve ever cast because were going to start making things again and were going to start winning again, that I can tell you.
And together as a big group and a loving group, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.
