Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Selma, NC|November 3, 2016
Some brave people back there, very brave people. Look at that crowd, 15,000, more than 15,000. Thank you very much. This is a great honor.
I have so many incredible friends here tonight.  Thank you. Were going to have some big, big, beautiful weeks ahead of us I think, and more importantly some very, very great years for our country.  I want to begin by thanking General Kellogg, amazing man, amazing friend.
General Flynn, same thing these are unbelievable people; Congressman Mark Meadows we have a few great congressmen here, people that have been loyal right from the beginning. I appreciate it very much. Who knew this is where we were going to be, right? This is where we want to be.  In five days were going to win the great state of North Carolina... Applause] ... and we are going to win back the White House, believe me.  But you have to get out there and you have to vote, you have to vote. Who is going to be voting -- who is going to be voting on Tuesday?  OK.
But who has already voted?  Thats what I thought. All right you get out there and vote because thats the whole thing. We have a movement that this country has never seen. Theyre writing about it; theyre talking about it all over the world and we want to make sure it happens.
Otherwise, to me, not quite the same, right? Not quite the same. We want to get finished off, so get out there before Tuesday or on Tuesday and lets finish it off. Its an honor to be here in North Carolina, a place I love. You know I have right next to Charlotte a very, very successful job.
I employ a lot of people. I pay a lot of salaries and thats good, theyre great people. Its a state thats produced many of the finest and bravest soldiers, airmen, sailors, Marines ever to wear the uniform, known for it. I stand here tonight among true heroes -- true heroes. Applause] Im also honored to be among so many military families, wives, husbands, parents and children who shoulder the burdens of war, brave people. Let me begin by making you this very solemn promise, I will never, ever let you down, I will tell you that.  And youve been let down. Youve been let down plenty over the years, believe me.
Im very proud to have the support of so many military and law enforcement groups all across this great nation. We have such incredible support. Theyre going out; theyre voting, theyve already voted. But we have unbelievable relationships with law enforcement and with the military and with our vets which is the military, believe me.
The military plus two, our great vets.  Including the support of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. We have many of them here with us tonight.  Were joined by a number of those admirals and generals, and seven Medal of Honor recipients right behind me.
And the Medal of Honor recipients with us tonight are, Colonel Leon ; where is Colonel, where is he?  Good, raise your hand pop. Theyre so much more brave than me. I wouldnt have done what they did. Im brave in other ways, Im brave -- Im financially brave, big deal, right? Hes a real brave.
Command Sergeant Major Bob Patterson.  Thanks, Bob. We travel together. Navy SEAL Mike Thornton. Applause] We travel together. Tough cookie. Sergeant Major Benny Adkins.  Colonel Joe   ...
and Master Sergeant Leroy Petrie. Thank you. Amazing people. These are amazing people.
There are a lot of amazing people right out here too, a lot of our friends. Tough cookies, Im not going to be playing with them, Im telling you, Im not going to do that. I saw somebody back stage big, strong, powerful. I said to the guys, you think I could take this guy in a fight; you think I could take him? They all said no, I said, I agree.
OK.  These men displayed to the whole world the unyielding strength, courage and grit of the United States of America. They went above and beyond the call of duty, thought nothing of their own safety, you understand that, in order to protect their fellow man and acted with a bravery that will etch their legacy into the history of their nation and this nation.  It is their nation, its our nation, were going to bring back our nation.
Were going to bring it back to greatness like it hasnt seen.  Not far from here is Fort Bragg, the second largest military base in the world.  Its the home of the 82nd Airborne Division, the most decorated unit in the U.S. Military and the Army Special Forces, great people.
I know many, many of them great, great people, who even today are serving in harms way overseas. Just in the last 24 hours this country lost two soldiers in combat in Afghanistan, and its a reminder of what our war is and the families like those at Fort Bragg and all of North Carolinas sacrifice for our country. We have a great country and we have great, great people in this country and Ive seen that over the last year- and-a-half traveling all over. Ive gotten to see so many, so many unbelievable people.
We owe them a debt we can never really repay.  Our special forces here at Fort Bragg have been the tip of the spear in fighting terrorism, believe me, were going to fight terrorism. Were going to get rid of ISIS, were going to get rid of them fast. All we need is leadership at the top level -- you understand what I mean, right? Does everybody understand? Believe me. Applause] The war we never win. The motto of our Army Special Forces is, To free the oppressed" and that is exactly what they have been doing and what we will do. The military families of North Carolina have shed their blood and poured out their hearts for our country. If given the honor of serving as your president Full and proper funding for all branches of the American Armed Services and thats -- youll have that from me, folks.
Its not about the sequester -- the sequester to take away from our military and, you know what I mean. A commitment from our allies to pay their fair share of our military burden.  You know I brought that up -- nobody has ever brought that up, right? But were protecting people all over the world and theyre not treating us properly, and they will -- they will, our allies will, but somebody has to ask them. Ill ask them. Applause] They will. Well have better relationships than we have right now, far better, and you all understand what I mean. Support for military families including jobs, education and housing the best care in the world for our unbelievable, great veterans. And the veterans have supported me as much as anybody else and they know what Im talking about.
They have not been treated fairly or properly, both at the public V.A. facilities, as well as the right to see private doctors of their choice if theyre not getting the service they need.  And you know theyre not getting that service. People are waiting in line; veterans are waiting in line for seven days, eight days, 12 days.
And I wont mention numbers but you know whats going on with certain rates of suicide and things -- you dont even like talking about -- hard to believe when you hear the numbers, 22 a day, hard to believe, inconceivable. And often times theyre waiting for a simple procedure or simple prescription and that stuff is not going to happen anymore folks. You are our great people -- you are our great people -- you are our great people its not going to happen.  And finally, a commitment to only engage the use of military forces when its vital for national security interests of the United States. Applause] We will stop trying to build foreign democracies, topple regimes and race recklessly to intervene in situations that we have no right to be there, folks. We want strength in this country. We want to protect our country.  Instead, our focus must be on keeping America safe and on destroying ISIS -- we have no choice on that -- and defeating radical Islamic terrorism.
We will defeat it and we will defeat it quickly.  Any nation that shares our goal of destroying ISIS and defeating terrorist will be our partner in this mission. Under the failed leadership -- we will build a wall, dont worry about it.  It will be a great wall.
It will be a real wall, folks. It will be a real wall.  Under the failed leadership of Hillary -- look, leadership, what leadership? I dont want to use the word in the same sentence of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. ISIS has become a clear and present danger to Europe and the United States.
After all of the sacrifice our soldiers have made, Clinton and Obama pulled out the troops on a public timetable giving rise to ISIS. They call it the big vacuum that was created and handing Iraq over to the ISIS killers and thugs. Now ISIS is on a campaign of genocide in the Middle East torturing, drowning, burning people alive, chopping off their heads. Not since medieval time have we seen something like this folks.
And I want to rebuild our country. I want to rebuild our infrastructure, but there are some things that have to be done first, believe me. ISIS has slaughtered men and women and children in France, Germany, Belgium and theyre now 1,000 -- never before so many -- ISIS investigations going on in the United States. Weve seen the bloodshed in the attacks, in Orlando, San Bernardino and the recent bomb blood in New York and New Jersey.
Yet as we send brave men and women overseas to fight terrorists in the Middle East, Hillary Clinton wants to fling our borders wide open allowing those same terrorists to infiltrate our country by the thousands.  Obama and Clinton are allowing thousands and thousands to come into our country. Hillary wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees and virtually unlimited immigration from most of the extreme and dangerous places in the world to pour into our country, unthinkable. A Trump Administration will suspend the Syrian refugee program and keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Applause] And we all have heart and we dont want to see people hurt.  Folks, we all have big hearts and we want to see people live and be taken care of. We cant -- we have so many problems we cant allow this to happen, but we will build safe zones in Syria, we will get the Gulf States -- they have nothing but money -- we owe $20 trillion if you dont mind, right? Boy this is a big crowd, man. Look where that goes to. Applause] General Flynn is even impressed -- hes never impressed, but hes impressed. But this is a big crowd. And by the way, I wish those cameras, worlds most dishonest people, the media, I wish these people -- I wish these people would take a look at this crowd because thats what we have, but they never want to do that. Its always right on my face.
I go home, I say to my wife, did they show the crowd? No they just showed your face, I dont want that. There is a big lot of people, over 15,000 people in this field.  So we want to build safe zones, well do it in Syria. Well get the Gulf States to put up the money, theyll do it.
And, you know, well take care of people but we cannot let whats happening in Germany and Sweden and lots of other places, look at France -- look at Paris. I have friends that used to go to Paris. They dont go anymore, they say, no Paris isnt Paris. We cant allow to happen San Bernardino, so many other places, Orlando, recently, more recently.
We know Hillary cant be trusted, weve learned that, with Americas security. You take a look at her e-mail situation, can we trust her with our security?  She is disqualified for running for president of the United States, shes disqualified. The most dishonest person ever to run for office.  You know when I look at these great admirals, and these great generals, and these great Medal of Honor recipients behind me, to think of her being their boss? I dont think so. Booing] And you know, theyre incredible patriots, they would never say a thing but I know what theyre thinking. Its not for them, believe me. Shes under multiple criminal investigations at this very moment for criminal conduct that put the safety of our nation at risk. Just a few minutes ago CBS News just announced and confirmed that the 650,000 -- and you wonder why things dont get done -- 650,000 e-mails discovered by the FBI include brand new e-mails not previously seen. Booing] Remember when they said they were all duplicates, theyre duplicates. Well, how can there by duplicates when 650,000 is even more than all of them that are missing, right? How can there be duplicates? Hillary therefore committed perjury absolutely because of her statements in addition to all of her other crimes. Probably also in that batch are classified at the highest level, that would now have been hacked by foreign countries, because you saw today where they said, yes, she was hacked. This is a person thats running for president? Service members here in North Carolina have risked their lives to acquire classified intelligence to protect our country.
Hillary thought nothing of putting classified information on her illegal server which our enemies now have hacked. And as you know, as you know, Four Star General Cartwright, two weeks ago, James Cartwright, somebody respected by a lot of these people, by all of them that I spoke to, can tell you, General Kellogg, General Flynn, great respect for them -- for him. He was in such -- he could go to jail now for five years for doing something thats a tiny fraction of what she did. She is protected by the Department of Justice.
And whats going on in our country, this has never happened -- ever happened before. The FBI is in there, theyre doing their job and theyre not allowed to be doing their job. Whats going on is a disgrace. We know now with almost 100 percent confidence that at least five foreign intelligence agencies breached the Clinton server.
Then she tried to destroy the evidence by deleting the e-mails after -- not before, that was bad -- after receiving a United States congressional subpoena. So she gets the subpoena from Congress and she said, this isnt good delete -- delete the e-mails. Hillary created the server to shield her criminal activity and her corrupt pay-for-play schemes, where she sold her office as secretary of State to the donors and special interests and the FBI has it all -- they have it all. Theyre not allowed to do anything with it because her protector is the Department of Justice. Booing] Well have to change the name of the Department of Justice. In other words, she was more interested in keeping her e-mails a secret than in keeping our classified intelligence a secret. She was more interested in protecting herself than in protecting the people of the United States.  Ending this criminal government corruption is one of the most important reasons you have to go out on November 8th and vote if you havent already done it.
We also know Hillary cant be trusted with our security because of her disastrous record on foreign policy. No secretary of State in history has failed in more places in more ways than Hillary Clinton, like Benghazi. In 2009, pre-Hillary, Libya was stable, Syria was under control, Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence and ISIS wasnt even on the map. We didnt know what ISIS was, they didnt exist.
Fast forward to today. Libya is in ruins. Syria is in the middle of a catastrophic civil war. Iraq is in total chaos and ISIS is spreading across the region into Europe, into America.
Theyve launched a campaign of genocide against Christians all over the world, theyre in 32 countries. Yet after all of this, Hillary Clinton cant even say the words radical Islamic terror, cant say the words, she wont say the words and our president wont say the words. And unless youre going to know what the words are, unless youre going to admit what the problem is, youre never going to solve the problem. She wont say the words, he wont say the words.
Hell tell you for a half an hour why he wont say the words. At the end of the half hour, people look and say whats going on. Anyone who cannot name the enemy cannot lead the country.  Another reason we know Hillary cant be trusted with our security is as that gentleman right there whos been shouting out all night, Benghazi.
Let me make this very clear, a Trump Administration will honor that sacred pledge to leave no man or woman behind.  On top of everything else, we have the disaster -- we have the disaster of the humiliation in Iran. Our sailors were forced to their knees, because they were a little off course. Remember that? The humiliation of the 10 sailors? They feel ruined and permanently humiliated.
They humiliated our country after we signed a deal that was one of the dumbest deals Ive ever seen in my life. Its going to be a path to nuclear weapons within 10 years -- theyll be much quicker than that. We gave them -- remember -- we gave them all of that money. We gave them $1.7 billion in cash, they thought it was $400 million.
Do you know what $1.7 billion in cash is? Thats like -- we could get the general -- we get the generals, the admirals, the Medal of Honor winners -- get them off the stage because we wouldnt have enough to room to put them. That cash would fill up that stage and more. We gave them cash, it was a ransom, we said it wasnt a ransom, another lie. Just like he lied about, remember, Obamacare.
You can keep your doctor, keep you plan, he lied.  Well, he lied about this and now Iran is demanding billions more in new ransom payments, because theyve got some other people -- they want billions more. So we made a horrible deal -- this is what happens when you make bad deals -- they become emboldened because they think youre stupid people. Theyre circling their ships with their little boats, and who knows what theyre saying.
I think I know what theyre saying without even asking. Theyre going next to our planes with their fighter jets. They became emboldened. With all of the money, all of the humiliation, we gave them $150 billion back and theyve become nastier.
And they were in trouble when Obama started -- when Hillary started that deal, she started it by the way. They were in deep trouble, we couldve made a great deal. Sometimes you have to walk and walk and walk. But we made one of the dumbest Ive ever seen.
Hillary put them on a path to regional dominance and nuclear weapons. Because of our failed leaders including from the campaigner in chief, Obama.  This guy does nothing but campaign. You know, I said the other day, I said, let him work on bringing our jobs back from Mexico who stole our jobs.
Let him work on building up our very depleted -- you know it better than anybody -- our depleted military, the greatest people in the world. We have a depleted -- we have fighter jets that are so old they dont make parts for them anymore -- you people know this better than me. We have to airplane graveyards and museums to get parts for our fighter jets that were currently using. He ought to be doing that, he ought to be working on our borders, he ought to be working on crime.
Instead hes campaigning with somebody thats under FBI investigation.  America is not respected, sadly, around the world because of our leadership. And at home, our cities have seen an alarming rise in violence, communities are trapped in poverty, and 400,000 -- think of it, we have so many people that are living badly, so many people. We have over 40,000 homeless veterans, even as we spend trillions of dollars to support illegal immigration. Booing] We have illegal immigrants that are treated far better than our great veterans. Thats not going to happen anymore folks.  Hillary Clinton wants to send American troops to defend our borders, and the borders of foreign countries, but refused to protect the borders of our own country. And without borders we dont have a country.
Isnt it amazing? Well spend billions of dollars to protect borders, and to establish borders of countries, but the United States essentially doesnt have borders. America needs a turnaround and needs it now, America needs new leadership quickly. That begins with restoring respect for America and restoring respect for the American flag.  I havent liked what Ive been seeing and neither have you.
It also means rebuilding our depleted military. A Trump Administration will immediately reverse the Obama-Clinton Defense Sequester.  The Army is the smallest its been since before World War II, did you know that? The Navy is the smallest since World War I. The admirals back there know it, theyre not happy.
Youre not happy Admirals, are you? Theyre not happy. The Air Force is the smallest and oldest its ever been just about since inception. My plan will grow the Army to 540,000 -- thats the number they want, thats the number they feel comfortable with, the great generals. Five hundred and forty thousand active troops which the Army chief of staff has really reported on very strongly thats what they need.
That means more brigade combat teams at Fort Bragg. Fort Bragg -- by the way the reputation of Fort Bragg, great -- the men and women of Fort Bragg, great, its great.  We will build 1,200 modern fighters our Air Force needs -- these are the jets. And that means more planes flying out of locations like Seymour Johnson Air Force Base... Applause] ... and Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point.  Our Marine Corps will grow from 27 to 36 battalions.  I dont know, maybe you like it the way it is? A little nice and easy -- no, you like -- you want it to grow, right?  It needs to grow.
And thats going to need a lot more Marines at Camp Lejeune -- and Ive been to Camp Lejeune.  And new military technologies will be produced at the Research Triangle right here in North Carolina.  In summary, my policy can be based on three very important words, peace through strength.  We need it -- we need it -- we need it.
Almost as much as ever before we need strength, we need strong military. Strength also means -- yes, I agree. Strength also means we need to save Americas economy. That begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare. Applause] Its a disaster -- its a disaster. Its just been announced that the residents of North Carolina are going to experience a massive, massive double digit premium hike. Ninety-five of 100 North Carolina counties will have only one insurer in the Obamacare exchange next year. Lots of luck negotiating that one folks -- thats not going to be easy.
But it doesnt matter because if I win were terminating it and were going to have great insurance so it doesnt matter, not going to matter.  Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare making it much more expensive than it already is, which is ridiculous and its horrible health care and its very -- you dont even get to use it. Im asking for your vote so we can repeal Obamacare and save health care for every family in North Carolina and this country.  At the core of my contract with the American voter is my plan to bring back our jobs. Applause] North Carolina is a very vivid example, lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA -- a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton.  America has lost -- tell this in front of all of these brave, incredible people behind me -- 70,000 factories -- think of it, 70,000. I thought it was a typo when I first read it two weeks ago. Seventy thousand factories since China entered the World Trade Organization -- another Bill Clinton disaster backed very strongly by Hillary.
We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world -- the history of the world. Theres never been anything like this. We have like major highways, its a one-way street into Mexico and other countries. We lose our jobs, we lose our factories, we lose our plants, we lose our wealth, we end up with drugs and unemployment and crime.
A Trump Administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, and we will stop the jobs from leaving North Carolina -- we will stop it -- consequences.  The theft of American prosperity will finally end. They have taken away our prosperity, believe me. Were in a bubble, they have taken away our prosperity.
If a company wants to fire their workers, move to another country and then try to ship their products back into the United States -- where we will now have a very, very strong border -- we will apply a 35 percent tax on all of good.  And you know whats going to happen? Those companies will never leave, its very simple -- its very simple, theyll never leave because the model no longer works. A Trump Administration will renegotiate -- totally -- NAFTA, this disaster called NAFTA. And if we dont get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers. Applause] We will also stop -- and I mean immediately -- the job killing Transpacific Partnership thats being talked about right now. That will be another NAFTA -- although nothing is as bad as NAFTA -- but we will stop it. That will take the rest of your jobs. As part of our plan -- thank you, I love you too, tough guy over there -- the rough looking guy says he loves me, I dont know.
I dont know, but I love him, I love you all, believe me. As part of our plan...  Thank you. As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.
We will become a rich nation again, but to be a rich nation we must also be a safe nation. Hillary supports total open borders -- there goes your country -- and supports sanctuary cities like in San Francisco where Kate Steinle, the great, beautiful, wonderful person, Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant who had been deported perhaps more than five times. A Trump Administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities, very simple.  We will deport all criminal aliens, stop the drugs from pouring into our communities and we will protect American workers, its time.
And thats just the beginning. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.  We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes substantially.
She is going for a major tax increase, remember that. Were the highest taxed nation in the world, and she wants a tax increase, I dont think so. Were going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation, cancel every illegal Obama executive order...  ...
rebuild our military and take care of our vets...  ... provide school choice and an end to common core -- were bringing our education local.  We are going to support the truly great men and women of law enforcement. Applause] We will save our Second Amendment which is under siege...  ... and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.  Its time to cut our ties with the failed and bitter politics of the past -- and they are failed and they are bitter.
Hillary Clinton -- if shes even allowed to run -- is the candidate of yesterday, we are the movement of the future, we -- we.  Im just the messenger folks. Thank you.  Thank you very much.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great people -- great, great people. Applause] Thank you very much. Youre the ones, youre the ones; Im the messenger, but I have done a good job as a messenger, you have to say, I mean weve done a good job.  You know I was on the other side, you know that. I was like when you talk about insider -- who was a better insider than me? But I love this country.
I saw what was happening to our country and I said, I have to do this hard work, its hard work, but I have to do this.  And were going to make our country again, you watch, and fast.  We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and first-time voters, of which there are many -- you take a look at the lines in Florida, you take a look at the lines right here, you take a look at the lines in Texas and in Georgia and all over. It is unbelievable whats going on, Ill tell you.
You talk about movement, it is a real movement. Weve never had anything like this in this country -- and even the pundits, even the ones that dont like me -- they say, theres never been anything like whats -- just take a look at this field.  We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interest.  We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better future.
With your vote in just -- can you believe this, five days, can you believe it? It started on June 16th -- June 16th of last year and look where we are, look where we are, such progress, such unbelievable progress. Were just five days away from the change youve been waiting for your entire life. Were very happy.  You will remember this night as a very important night, and you are going to remember your vote, hopefully as the greatest vote you have ever cast because our country will start winning again.
Were gonna win, were gonna win with trade.  Were gonna win at the borders.  Were gonna win with our great military. Were going to knock out ISIS the way it should be. Applause] You know, I tell the story of Mosul and I heard about Mosul for a long time. You know, we had Mosul, it was only the way Obama got out, that we lost it, now were now trying to retake it with great, great people. But I said, whatever happened to the element of surprise? Because about four months ago, I heard, you know, what Im talking about -- they know what Im talking about better than anybody. I said, whatever happened to the element of surprise? So four months ago I hear, we are going to go in and take Mosul.
I said, I dont want to hear it, just do it, do it quietly, dont talk about it. And one of the reasons were going to take it is we are going to get the leaders of ISIS who are in Mosul. I said, wait a minute, these are smart people. If they think youre going in, theyre going to leave.
And theyre going to build up and leave lots of people behind. And you see what theyre doing, right? Its much tougher than they thought. Then I heard three months ago again, were going into Mosul, were going to get the leaders, then two months ago, then one month ago. I keep saying why are they doing this.
Whats wrong with talking about it not at all? Lets have a news conference in a week after its done OK?  So as you know they have a very tough fight going on now, and the leaders have all left -- I couldve told you that. They left -- you know when they left? About two minutes after hearing the first one, right? And theyre someplace else right now. We are led by stupid people, OK?  We are led by stupid people, and one of them is campaigning just too much. So we have a great country.
