Donald Trump|ABC: Interview with Donald Trump on This Week|July 31, 2016
By millions, George. By millions.
Three.
Shes a very dishonest person. I have one of the great temperaments. I have a winning temperament. She has a bad temperament. Shes weak. We need a strong temperament and thats all it is, I have a strong temperament. And...
-- I do know how to win.
Well, I think thats probably because Hillary, thats all they talk about is temperament. I think I have a great temperament. I beat 16 very talented people in -- and Ive never done this before. You dont do that with a bad temperament.
Im leading her in the polls, as you probably have noticed. And I think I have a great temperament.
I have a temperament where I know how to win. She doesnt know how to win. Shes not a winner. She doesnt know how to win.
Honestly, she lies a lot and she really -- she should tell the truth. I honestly believe if she told the truth -- because she made some reference to my campaigning, Ive had a beautiful -- Ive had a -- had a flawless campaign. Youll be writing books about this campaign. And yet shes criticizing my campaign.
Now, her campaign, she couldnt beat Bernie, OK?
Well, barely. And theres questions even about that. But barely. And if you look at whats going on in terms of unity, the Bernie people are angry. Theyre angry. He was angry.
What was amazing to me is when she was talking about Bernie last night, the camera was on him and he was angry. It almost looks like he has buyers remorse, like he shouldnt have made the deal.
I have no relationship to -- with him. I have no relationship with him.
Because he has said nice things about me over the years. I remember years ago, he said something -- many years ago, he said something very nice about me. I said something good about him when Larry King was on. This was a long time ago. And I said he is a tough cookie or something to that effect.
He said something nice about me. This has been going on. We did "60 Minutes" together. By the way, not together-together, meaning he was probably shot in Moscow...
-- and I was shot in New York.
No, just so you understand, he said very nice things about me, but I have no relationship with him. I dont -- Ive never met him.
No, look, what -- what do you call a relationship?
I mean he treats me...
-- with great respect. I have no relationship with Putin. I dont think Ive ever met him. I never met him. I dont think Ive ever met him.
I think so.
Yes, I think so. So Ive -- I dont think Ive ever met him. I mean if hes in the same room or something. But I dont think so.
Ive been in Moscow. I didnt meet him in Moscow.
Where?
I have never spoken to him on the phone, no. Ive speak -- Ive spoken -- when we had the Miss Universe contest a number of years ago, we had Miss Universe in Moscow, in the Moscow area, he was invited. He wanted to come. He wasnt able to come.
That would have been a time when I would have met him.
Well, I dont know what it means by having a relationship. I mean he was saying very good things about me, but I dont have a relationship with him. I didnt meet him. I havent spent time with him. I didnt have dinner with him. I didnt go hiking with him. I dont know -- and I wouldnt know him from Adam except I see his picture and I would know what he looks like.
They only fear one thing, losing the election. If our country got along with Russia, that would be a great thing. When Putin goes out and tells everybody -- and you talk about a relationship, but he says Donald Trump is going to win and Donald Trump is a genius, and then I have people saying you should disavow. I said, Im going to disavow that?
But when Putin says good things and when we have a possibility of having a good relationship with Russia...
-- I think...
Im not going to be mean to anybody. George, you know me pretty well. I dont bow, OK. I dont bow.
But if we can have a good relationship with Russia and if Russia would help us get rid of ISIS, frankly, as far as Im concerned, youre talking about tremendous amounts of money and lives and everything else, that would be a positive thing, not a negative thing.
No, because youre not going to do that. NATO is going to be just fine. But NATO countries -- we have 28 countries -- many of them are taking advantage of us because theyre not paying. So were protecting these countries and theyre not paying.
And when people leave that last part in, everybody agrees with me.
Im all in favor of NATO. I said NATO is obsolete. I was asked a question by one of your competitors and I said NATO is obsolete, because its not taking care of terror. You understand that. And it turned out I was right. A lot of people gave me credit for that.
Then, three months ago, on the front page of "The Wall Street Journal," they said NATO to develop a terror division. And somebody whos supposed to be very extraordinary was put in charge of it.
That was all because of me. So I was right about that.
I was also right about the fact that NATO, were being taken advantage of by NATO countries, totally advantage of ...
I wasnt involved in that. Honestly, I was not involved.
Yes. I was not involved in that. Id like to -- Id have to take a look at it. But I was not involved in that.
They softened it, I heard, but I was not involved.
Well, look, you know, I have my own ideas. Hes not going into Ukraine, OK?
Just so you understand. Hes not going to go into Ukraine, all right?
You can mark it down and you can put it down, you can take it anywhere you want.
OK, well, hes there in a certain way, but Im not there yet. You have Obama there. And frankly, that whole part of the world is a mess under Obama, with all the strength that youre talking about and all of the power of NATO and all of this, in the meantime, hes going where -- he takes -- takes Crimea, hes sort of -- I mean...
Im going to take a look at it. But, you know, the people of Crimea, from what Ive heard, would rather be with Russia than where they were. And you have to look at that, also.
Now, that was under -- just so you understand, that was done under Obamas administration. And as far as the Ukraine is concerned, its a mess. And thats under the Obamas administration, with his strong ties to NATO.
So with all of these strong ties to NATO, Ukraine is a mess. Crimea has been taken. Dont blame Donald Trump for that.
And well do better and yet well have a better relationship with Russia.
And having a good relationship -- maybe. and having a good relationship with Russia is a good thing, not a bad thing.
No. Not.
The primary thing I did what Russia -- I bought a house in Palm Beach at a bankruptcy. It was a bankrupt, you know, person. I bought it from the banks. I bought it for about $40 million. I sold it for $100 million to a Russian.
That was probably five years ago. And that was primarily it.
Now, well I sell...
Will I sell -- many years ago. I dont think theyre Russian. I think there were other people, but there were various partners.
Will I sell condos to Russians on occasion?
Probably.
I mean I do that. I have a lot of condos. I do that. But I have no relationship to Russia whatsoever.
No debts. I have very little debt to anybody. I dont need debt. You know, its very interesting, Im so liquid, I dont need debt. And if I need debt, if I want debt, I can get it from banks in New York City very easily.
My tax returns are very simple. Theyre under a minor audit, a routine audit, as they have been for many years. Every year I get audited.
Now, I dont know if you get audited but I have friends...
-- who are very wealthy that never have been audited. I say -- you get audited. I get audited every year. Im under a routine audited like routine. And Ive been for years, every year.
George, it is very simple. Yes, but theyre all linked. Its called the link.
Its very simple, if my audit is finished, thats great.
Now, I have to tell you. I watched Mitt Romney four years ago. He waited until September to give them, just before the election. They made him look so bad, it was so unfair, I actually think he didnt lose because of the 47 percent, I think he lost because of a couple of really minor items in tax return where he did nothing wrong. So it is unfair.
But I will say, when Im finished with the audit, Ill do it.
I dont use Richard Nixon as necessarily the guide, OK. I mean, you know, its an interesting person to use, but dont use it.
He doesnt know me well.
Michael Bloomberg, when he had a problem in Ferry Point, which is a massive job where his administration was a mess, they couldnt get it built. They called me. I took it over. I got it done in a year.
Michael Bloomberg couldnt get elected as a dogcatcher in New York.
Sure, he was good. But his last term was terrible. He did a terrible thing his last term. And frankly a lot of people didnt like him. He spent a fortune to get elected. Shouldnt have gone to a third term. The snow removal was a disaster. He had a problems. Michael Bloomberg had a big problem with Ferry Point in the Bronx. They called me. I made a deal. I took it over. I got it built. I got it open. Its open today. Its very successful.
And think, personally, I think he made a deal with Hillary where he gets a job, because hed like to -- because Michael Bloomberg has wanted to run for president for probably as long as you have known him and guess what? He never had the guts to do it. And now I see this guy up on stage saying negative things. He knows nothing about me. Hes never been to my office. I dont know him well.
Maybe once.
And I hit the ball a lot longer, and a lot better.
Should I tell you about it? Mara-a-Lago is a very successful club in Palm Beach, Florida, the Mar-a-Lago club, and during the season, its very, very hard to get employees.
We interview -- and we have a lot of people. We come with a lot of people. But its very, very hard to get people in Palm Beach during the Palm Beach season. Its called the Palm Beach social season. And what we do is we sometimes we have to bring people in.
As far as product, our country doesnt make product anymore. You have other countries devalue their currencies. They make it impossible. You look at suits and ties and shirts. You look at steel, you look at so many different things, its...
Very small. 3 percent of our product is made in apparel. And much of the material comes from overseas.
Its very -- if you want to get a television today -- I buy thousands of television sets. If I want a television, I would love the buy American-made televisions like they used to have where they had GE and Sylvania and all of the different. Today, its Samsung, its LG, its Sony. We dont make televisions anymore.
This is nothing new what youre saying. I talk about this during my speech. When I do ties, I bid them out. And I go all over the place. You have companies over in different countries where they devalue their currency and they make it impossible for American companies to compete.
The hat, Make America Great Again. I fought like crazy to find a company in this country that could make the hats. And I found one. And theyre American-made, but its -- because I knew the first thing people would do is, where is the hat made. OK, Make America Great.
But it is very, very hard for our companies to compete, because other company -- other countries -- and its really the countries, other countries take advantage of us.
Well, you know what? I dont hire the people. But if you look at all the other places in Palm Beach, theyre all doing exactly the same thing. And you know why theyre doing that? You know why theyre doing that? Because you cant get people, George.
I think the voter understand it, because they understand that -- you know, youre not reinventing the wheel here with these questions. These get asked all the time. Ive been asked about Mar-a-Lago. I have many other places where I dont have to do that, because you have a normal season.
Well, I tell you what I dont like, its against two NFL games. I got a letter from the NFL saying this is ridiculous, why are the debates against -- because the NFL doesnt want to go against the debates because the debates are going to be pretty massive, from what I understand.
And I dont think we should be against the NFL. I dont know how the dates were picked. I dont know why those particular dates.
Well, I dont like dates against -- you know, Hillary Clinton wants to be against the NFL. She doesnt maybe like she did with Bernie Sanders where they were on Saturday nights when nobodys home.
But theyre against the NFL. I saw the dates. Two -- I think two of the three are against the NFL, so Im not thrilled with that. But I like three debates. I think thats fine. I think its enough. Somebody said one debate, I would rather have three. I think they will be very interesting.
He doesnt know -- he doesnt know that.
I saw him. He was, you know, very emotional. And probably looked like -- a nice guy to me. His wife, if you look at his wife, she was standing there. She had nothing to say. She probably -- maybe she wasnt allowed to have anything to say. You tell me, but plenty of people have written that.
She was extremely quiet and looked like she had nothing to say. A lot of people have said that.
And personally, I watched him. I wish him the best of luck, George.
Well, I would say, we have had a lot of problems with radical Islamic terrorism, thats what Id say. We have had a lot of problems where you look at San Bernardino, you look at Orlando, you look at the World Trade Center, you look at so many different things. You look at what happened to the priest over the weekend in Paris, where his throat was cut, 85-year-old, beloved Catholic priest. You look at what happened in Nice, France, a couple of weeks ago.
I would say, you gotta take a look that, because something is going on, and its not good.
Well, that sounds -- who wrote that? Did Hillarys script writer write it? Because everybody that went out there -- we also had John Allen, who failed with ISIS. I mean, he was a general -- General Allen -- he went out, and hes ranting and raving. And then I read a report. He was in there for a number of months, and he failed with ISIS. And hes telling me, you know.
Well, I tell you, the generals arent doing so well right now.
Now, I have a feeling it may be Obamas fault. But if you look at ISIS, General MacArthur, and General Patton, theyre spinning in their graves. The generals certainly arent doing very well right now. And General Allen, after I saw he was on ranting and raving about me, who he never met, I checked up. Guess what? They were not so happy with him. He didnt beat ISIS. He didnt beat ISIS. He didnt do well with ISIS.
I think I have made a lot of sacrifices. Ive work very, very hard. Ive created thousands and thousands of jobs, tens of thousands of jobs, built great structures. Ive done -- Ive had tremendous success.
Oh, sure. I think theyre sacrifices.
I think when I can employ thousands and thousands of people, take care of their education, take care of so many things. Even in the military, I mean, I was responsible along with a group of people for getting the Vietnam Memorial built in downtown Manhattan, which to this day people thank me for.
Ive raised millions of dollars for the vets. Im helping the vets a lot. I think my popularity with the vets is through the roof, far greater than hers. Shes done nothing, all shes done is tell everybody that the vets are in good shape. Theyre fine. And theyre not fine. People are waiting in line for seven days to see a doctor.
I think that I just want to continue to campaign the way Im doing. Im leaving here. Im going to a speech thats packed with thousands of people. Theyre making, in many cases, less money now, George, than they made 18 years ago. And theyre working two jobs. Theyre working harder. Theyre older. And its unfair.
Our countrys a mess. And thats why when she makes the speech, she doesnt talk about radical Islam. She doesnt talk about the problems that we have in this country and throughout the world. Many of the problems, she caused. I mean, she created ISIS with her stupidity and her lack of knowledge with her bad judgment.
You know, Bernie Sanders said something about Hillary Clinton that was very interesting. He said she had bad judgment, great words, bad judgment. You know what, she has bad judgment.
She has no instinct.
I dont know. I mean, look, I had a very big bounce. In fact, I think you even said it was one of the biggest bounces in 20 years. Its been a long time since somebody had a bounce like that.
Look, I think the Republican convention was great or I wouldnt have had the bounce that I had. As you said, I had 3 million people more than she had on the final night. She had a Thursday, I had a Thursday, she had a speech, I had a speech, I had 3 million people more than she did. And I had a lot of people. There were a lot of people. I think I had 30 million. They had 27 million. I think were going to do very well in this election.
Thank you very much.
