Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Tampa, FL|November 5, 2016
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
Thank you very much, folks. Now, we have a little difficulty because we have about 3,000 people, maybe 4,000 outside. Should we wait for them to come in?
No!
I agree. Let's get going. You people were here from, like, 2:00 in the morning, they tell me. [Applause]
But we're going to get going. Thank you very much. And we don't need Jay-Z to fill up arenas, you know. We do it the old-fashioned way. We do it the old-fashioned way, folks, we fill them up because you love what we're saying and you want to make America great again. That's about it. [Applause]
And I actually like Jay-Z, but, you know, the language last night, oh, ooh. I was thinking, Maybe I'll just try it." Should I use that language if I want to...""nd I actually like Jay-Z
No!
Can you imagine if I said that? So -- he used every word in the book. I won't even use the initials because I'll get in trouble. They'll get me in trouble. He used every word in the book last night.
And by the way, in Hershey, Pennsylvania, last night, we had an arena. We had 27,000 people show up, maybe they couldn't get in. Far more -- far more than Jay-Z had with their free tickets. Free tickets. Far more. And Beyonce. And I like them both. But he used language last night that was so bad, and then Hillary said, I did not like Donald Trump's lewd language." [Laughter]""nd by the way
My lewd language. I tell you what -- I've never said what he said in my life. But that shows you the phoniness of politicians and the phoniness of the whole system, folks. [Applause]
In three days, we are going to win the great state of Florida. [Applause]
And we are going to win back the White House. [Applause]
Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare. [Applause]
It's just been announced that the residents of Florida -- I'm sorry to tell you this -- are going to experience a massive double-digit premium hike. And I know what it is. I say this to everybody. I know -- I just don't want to destroy the spirit in the room. It's going to be a massive hike. So, congratulations. It's not going to matter, because if we win, I'm throwing it out anyway. So it doesn't make any difference. But get ready. You're going to have a big, big, big hike. Hopefully, it won't make a damn bit of difference.
In the great state of Arizona, where I was just a couple of days ago and where I'm going, premiums are going up by more than 116 percent. [Booing]
Going to go higher than that. Over 90 percent of the counties in Florida are losing Obamacare insure. And think of it. They're losing their insurers. Over 90 percent of the counties. And remember -- and most of you were there -- almost all of you felt this whole movement right from the beginning when we came down for the primaries, right? We won 66 out of 67 counties, 66 out of -- Florida is just a place I love. My second home. I'm here all the time. [Applause]
I might know Florida better than you do. But my second home. But we won 66 out of 67 counties. That's never happened before. We almost -- we almost won that last one, too. And I see maybe even more enthusiasm right now than I did then. I think there's more enthusiasm. [Applause]
You see the tremendous lines of people, and they have Trump hats on, make America great again. But they have Trump hats on and they have buttons and they have shirts, and they're on line, and you see NBC, and you see these people... [Booing]
Total phonies. The most dishonest people. And they'll say, it looks like it's going -- there was one line where it was like 100 percent with Trump regalia. Now, maybe they're in disguise, maybe they're wearing buttons, shirts, and Trump hats, but they're actually going to vote for crooked Hillary. Do you think that's possible?
No!
But you see these lines, and the woman says, Yes
So the great state of Texas, an incredible place. I go there. We have these massive crowds. And about two weeks ago, I was hearing the phonies in the media, and they're going, very, very strongly, Texas is in play." Oh
Get 'em out, please. Get 'em out.
USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA! USA!
I must tell you, the Bernie Sanders protesters had much more enthusiasm and spirit than this one. The problem with these Hillary protesters is my people make all the noise. They're always going there, there. You can't even hear the person.
By the way, did you see -- before I get to Texas, did you see yesterday Obama screaming and screaming... [Booing]
... and screaming? Just like the way he runs the country. Nobody listens to him. Screaming, OK? And I wanted to see the protesters, because these lying, thieving people back there, the media, they don't ever show -- they don't ever show my crowds. [Booing]
I was saying to them the other night, Hershey, I was saying, You've got to show -- you've got to turn the camera." They just -- every one of them right up my face
So last night, Obama had a protestor, and they wouldn't turn the camera to the protester. It's the first time I've ever seen that. They kept it on him, but it was bad, because he kept screaming the same thing over and over again. And nobody would listen to him.
But they had the great state of Texas, so -- about three weeks ago, they'd say -- you know, they do these phony polls, right? Some of the polls are great. I only really acknowledge them if I'm winning, so -- and by the way, we're winning in a lot of polls! [Applause]
A lot of polls. [Applause]
We don't have enough time to talk about it now. There's too many of them.
Oh, I love those signs, Blacks for Trump." Ho-ho-ho
That's a great honor. Believe me, that's a great honor. So they kept saying, The great state of Texas is in play." Now
So then I get back, and three weeks ago, Texas is in play. It's even." And I say
A guy gets on two days ago, a man named Sid Miller. Don't really know him. Wearing a big, beautiful, white cowboy hat. In fact, I want to find out where he got it. It's pretty nice. And he said, You know
So, Texas, we're just absolutely -- we're doing great in Texas. But we're doing great in New Hampshire. We're doing great in Iowa. We're doing great in Ohio. Ohio. Just left, going back again soon. Doing phenomenally well in North Carolina. [Applause]
I think we're going to win Pennsylvania. [Applause]
I think we're going to win Pennsylvania. We're right there. I saw they had -- you know, and even is not, like, my thing. You know, we're even. But they had me way down in Pennsylvania, then last night, I'm looking, two or three polls came out. Jim

Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!