Donald Trump|Interview: Pat Robertson of CBN Interviews Donald Trump|July 12, 2017
Thank you.

He has launched intercontinental missiles. Is there a possibility that we might want to knock some of those down on the launch pad or right after launch?
Will they get tough with North Korea? I know that you were so close when he was there visiting Mar-a-Lago.
Well, were going to see. Were going to see. I would say that we had a good chance. They had an election where President Moon got elected to South Korea. He has a much different attitude -- or a much different take -- on how to handle this situation than his predecessor in South Korea. Hes perhaps softer on the issue, but maybe not, because I like him a lot. I think hes going to be a strong person. I think hes got strong views -- stronger than people would understand. So well see how it all works out. I think China wants to help us. Were going to find out whether or not they do. But China would, in my opinion, like to be able to help us.
Well, our leverage with China is that China makes hundreds of billions of dollars a year with us on trade. And I want to renegotiate trade deals. But I would certainly be a lot easier in a trade deal if they were going to help us with North Korea than if they werent. So were going to see. The relationship is very good with China. Its very good with the president of China, whos a terrific person. We will find out whether or not they want to help. And maybe they do. And maybe they dont.
Well, Rex is doing a terrific job. But he and I had a little bit of a difference, only in terms of tone. So we went to Saudi Arabia. We had one of the great meetings ever -- 54 Muslim countries. And I got up, made a speech, got nice reviews. Its almost like you making a speech. But I said, weve got to stop the funding of terrorism. Tremendous money, and theyre funding terrorism. So weve got to stop it. So they are working very hard on that. And I believe theyre going to do it. It was one of the most incredible two days. As an example, Saudi Arabia put up hundreds of billions of dollars of money going into buying our planes and our military equipment and investing in our country. And I said, you have to do that. Otherwise Im not going. So they spent hundreds of billions of dollars right in front of us. They were signing and big people from the biggest countries in companies -- General Electric, and all of the big companies. Many of them were there getting contracts. All good work for our workers. That was one of the things. But the other thing is that -- and very important to me -- was the funding of terrorism has to stop. And they fund terrorism -- some of those countries, many of those countries. So we had a tremendous summit. And I think things are going to work out. I think it was a very, very important and very impressive two days. And now, as you know, Qatar -- which a lot of people call it Qatar -- but Qatar is now a little bit on the outs. But I think they are being brought back in. Because they were known as a funder of terrorism. And we said you cant do that. You cant do that. We have to starve the beast, right. And the beast is terrorism. So we cant have wealthy countries funding that beast.
Well, well be all right. Look, if we ever had to leave, we would have 10 countries willing to build us another one. Believe me. And theyll pay for it. The days of us paying for things are going to be largely over. Theyll start paying. We go out. We build. We this. We that. But youre right. Qatar -- were going to have a good relationship with Qatar. And were not going have a problem with the military base. But if we ever needed another military base, you have other countries that would gladly build it. Believe me.
Well, look, we had a good meeting. I think we had an excellent meeting. One thing we did is we have a ceasefire in a major part of Syria where there was tremendous bedlam and tremendous killing. And by the way, this is now four days. The ceasefire has held for four days. Those cease fires havent held at all. Thats because President Putin and President Trump made the deal and its held. Now, I dont know whats going to happen. Maybe as were speaking they start shooting again. But this has held, unlike all of the other cease fires that didnt mean anything. So that was a great thing that came out of that meeting. I think a lot of things came out of that meeting. But I do believe its important to have a dialogue. And if you dont have a dialogue, its a lot of problems for our country and for their country. I think we need dialogue. We need dialogue with everybody. Sure. It was a great G-20. We had 20 countries. I get along, I think, really fantastically with the head of every country.
Thats right. Well I was invited by the president -- the new president of France -- who is a very good person, very good guy. And dont forget, I terminated for our country the Paris Accord. So thats not that easy for them. But I terminated it, because it was not fair to our country. We have other countries that had much better deals than we did, to put it just in a very simple form. And I said, why do we not have a better deal? And nobody could give me the answer. I said, Im terminating. So I terminated. But Im going to be with the president. And I think its going to be very exciting. Its 100 years since World War I. Turns out to be the exact date. So were going to watch something that I think will be very beautiful. And I think its very important for our country to be represented 100 years since the First World War.
Well he wants whats good for Russia. Yeah. And I want whats good for the United States. And I think, like in a case like Syria, where we can get together, do a cease fire -- and there are other cases or many other cases where getting along can be a very positive thing. But always, Putin is going to want Russia. And Trump is going to want United States. And thats the way it is. And sometimes, youre not going to get along on things. And sometimes you will. But we had a good meeting. It was a face to face meeting. It was a long meeting. It was two hours and 15 minutes. Everyone were surprised by the amount of time. But that was a good thing, not a bad thing.
Yeah, I think we got along very well. And I think thats a good thing. And thats not a bad thing. Yeah, of course not. People said, oh they shouldnt get along. Well, who are the people that are saying that? I think we got along very, very well. Were a tremendously powerful nuclear power. And so are they. Sure It doesnt make sense not to have some kind of a relationship.
Its something you dont even like talking about. But again, were the most powerful country in the world. And we are getting more and more powerful. Because Im a big military person. As an example, if Hillary had won, our military would be decimated. Our energy would be much more expensive. Thats what Putin doesnt like about me. And thats why I say, why would he want me? Because from day one, I wanted a strong military. He doesnt want to see that. And from day one, I want fracking and everything else to get energy prices low and to create tremendous energy. Were going to be self-supporting. We just about are now. Were going to be exporting energy. He doesnt want that. He would like Hillary, where she wants to have windmills. He would much rather have that, because energy prices will go up. And Russia, as you know, relies very much on energy. There are many things that I do that are the exact opposite of what he would want. So when I keep hearing about that he would have rather had Trump, I think probably not. Because when I want a strong military, you know she wouldnt have spent the money on the military. But when I want a strong military, and when I want tremendous energy, were opening up coal. Were opening up natural gas. Were opening up fracking -- all the things that he would hate. But nobody ever mentions it.
But when you think of that, thats creating value. We have a lot of tremendous things ready to go, tremendous projects all over the country. Dont forget, when I came in, one of my first acts was the Keystone Pipeline.
And the Dakota Access Pipeline. These two things got approved immediately. They would have never been built. And its thousands and thousands of jobs. And it was my honor. To me, it was a no-brainer.
Oh, just thousands. And what weve done is weve given the farmers back their land. Weve given the home-builders the right to put up a house. You had cases where a farm would have a little puddle someplace -- a puddle. When I grew up, we used to call it a puddle, right -- you too, probably. And they considered it a lake. And if you touched it, bad, bad things happen to you and your family. Weve given the farmers back their farms. We have so many things planned in the future too, with the tax cuts and the death taxes. Were ending the death taxes. Theres so many things we have planned. But the farmers are so happy now. The home-builders are happy. We have our most jobs ever in our country. Now we have to take care of those people that have given up looking for a job. You have a large group of people in this country that have given up. I would talk about them a lot in speeches. Theyve given up looking for jobs. Theyre going to be looking very soon. And theyre going to be getting those jobs.
And number three is infrastructure, which were going to do also.
But number one, repeal and replace. I am sitting in the Oval Office with a pen in hand, waiting for our senators to give it to me. For years, theyve been talking about repeal and replace, repeal and replace. I think they passed it 61 times -- repeal and replace. But that didnt mean anything. Because you had the minority, the Republicans. They didnt have the majority, so it wasnt going to get to the president. But if it ever did, Obama was going to sign it, so it didnt mean. Now, we have a president thats waiting to sign it. I have pen in hand. So now it means something. Those other times -- those many, many times that they passed it --
You have very good people. These are very good people. We have 52 senators. Its very hard to get all -- we need almost all of them. You need almost all of them. And thats the holdup. And states are somewhat different. But with all of that being said, has to get passed. They have to do it. They have to get together and get it done.
Well, I dont want to talk about it. Because I think it would be very bad. I would be very angry about it. And a lot of people will be very upset. But Im sitting waiting for that bill to come to my desk. I hope that they do it. Theyve been promising it for years. Theyve been promising it ever since Obamacare, which has failed. Its a failed experiment. It is totally gone. Its out of business. And we have to get this done -- repeal and replace.
Hes got to pull it off.
Mitch has to pull it off. Hes working very hard. Hes got to pull it off.
I think after health care, taxes are going to be so easy. Health care is very hard. Health care is hard, because youll do something a little bit this way, and you pick up that final vote, and you lose four votes over here. Now you it back. Its a very tiny little road. Its about two feet wide. And it goes throughout the country. So health care is much tougher than taxes. No, I think taxes are going to be very well. In fact, our plan is were talking about massive tax cuts -- the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. Were going to get people back again. Were going to bring back $4 trillion from overseas. Money that cant come back into this country because of our tax code. Were going to bring back $4 trillion -- could be more than that -- from corporations that cant get their money back into our country. Were going to give a tremendous tax cut for the middle class. Were bringing it down to 10%. Were bringing corporate taxes down to 15%. I hope we can get that number approved. Maybe theyll want to do something and negotiate. But if we get what we want, it will be the biggest tax cut and the greatest tax reform in the history of our country.
Well, I think we can do them simultaneously. The code is too complicated. H&R Block wont be happy. But people go out. They spend a lot of their money on getting other people to do their taxes.
I know. You understand. And its unnecessary. So simplification is very important. Reform is very important. And the biggest thing to me is tax cut. We are going for very large tax cuts for businesses and for the middle class. Tremendous tax cuts.
Well first of all, Chairman Brady is a great guy. He really knows the subject. Hell never disappoint you. So theyre, I think, really good. In the Senate, I think were going to do very well. Again, like health care -- this is simpler than health care, believe it or not -- but like health care, I think were going to get it done. And then I want to go to infrastructure. We have to rebuild our country -- our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools. We have to rebuild our country.
You know, we will have, in another few months, have spent $7 trillion dollars in the Middle East. $7 trillion. And then if you want to spend $2 on building a school in Iowa or in Pennsylvania or in Florida, they dont want to give you the money. But weve spent -- in a very short period of time -- we will be up to $7 trillion dollars. How ridiculous is this? And heres what we got for it. Nothing. Nothing. The Middle East is a mess. Now, Im there for one reason. Weve got to get rid of the terrorists. Thats the reason. And were almost there. We have really made headway. Weve made, as I said, weve made more headway in the last short period of time than they have ever before, by far, during this long period of time. But when you think that weve spent -- we will have spent $7 trillion. Think of it. Weve spent, as of a few months ago, we actually have spent $6 trillion in the Middle East. But we have nothing for it. Nothing. I want to rebuild our bridges and our roads. I have a friend whos a trucker. And he loves -- hes very proud of his equipment. He buys it very big. And he buys the best trucks. Hes very proud of it. He said in the past, when we went from Los Angeles to New York, it was fine. Now by the time he gets to New York, with all the problems on the roads and potholes, he said Ive got to fix my equipment all the time. He wants to go to a different level of truck, meaning downward.
We have to fix our roads. And we have to fix our infrastructure. So infrastructure is very important.
Oh, well get the money. Were going to get the money. And were going to grow. And I say it. Were going to grow. Were going to have tremendous growth. Were being held back by all these regulations, which Im knocking out left and right.
Even Dodd-Frank, with the banking business. I have people -- friends of mine -- they want to go get a loan. They cant. Great people, and they cant get loans. Were doing things on Dodd-Frank, in terms of the banks. We have many, many things that were doing. But were going to have growth. And were going to grow out of our problems. Hey, we owe $20 trillion dollars.
Were going to get past it. And were going to get past it to a large extent, because were going to have a country thats going to be much more dynamic. If we do GDP at 1% -- because were basically, for the last year, at around 1%. I call countries like Im friendly with all -- lets say, the top 20 countries where I just left. How are you doing to a major country -- I wont use names -- oh, we are not happy. We are not happy. Whats your GDP? 8%. 11%. 10%. 9%. And I say, how you doing? We are not happy. So were at 1% and were supposed to be happy? We have the highest taxes anywhere in the world. Were going to lower them. Were going to lower them substantially. Were going to have tremendous growth.
Well then Ill see you at the inauguration.
Thank you Pat, thats so nice.
The evangelicals were so great to me. And they did. They came out in massive numbers. And on top of that, I got 83%. But they came out in record numbers. They never came out like that. And weve really helped. Because Ive gotten rid of the Johnson Amendment. Now were going to go try and get rid of it permanently in Congress. But I signed an executive order so that now, people like you -- that I want to hear from -- ministers and preachers and rabbis and whoever it may be, they can speak.
You couldnt speak politically before. Now you can. And I want to hear from you and others that we like. Franklin Graham -- I had such a -- Dr. Jeffress, Robert Jeffress, who is such a great guy. Pastor Jeffress. He used to go on television. I didnt know who he was. Id see him. And he was always speaking so well of me. And you have so many people that I want to hear from. Now theyre going to be able to speak. And thats going to be a great thing for Christianity. Believe me -- a great, great thing. And its a great thing for religion.
Well we have a great one with Justice Gorsuch. Unbelievable. Hes going to be great. And I just have to wait to see what happens. I have a lot of respect for Justice Kennedy. I like him a lot. But we have to see what happens. And well be learning. Whatever it is, it is. If there is ever a vacancy, we will put somebody on who is going to be terrific for our country.
Well, theres a -- there seems to be a hatred. And its too bad. Were creating jobs. Were creating value. Were making our country proud again. Were building up our military. Were taking care of our police. Our police have been horribly treated.
The veterans. We have something where its accountability. Veterans Accountability Act. We have, where you could be the worst employee in history, you could treat the veterans horribly. You can do whatever you want. They couldnt fire you. Theyve been trying to get rid of it for 40 years. Theyve been trying to get in a position where they can do things. I had it passed last week. I just signed it last week. Nobody even talks about it. But you know what? The people know that were doing these things. The people see the stock market. The people see the jobs report. But it is really unfair, because its like a witch hunt. Its like a witch hunt. But we take it. We take it. As long as my people understand -- thats why I do interviews with you. You have a tremendous audience. You have people that I love -- the evangelicals. And sometimes, you say the evangelical Christians. But I do a lot of interviews with people, because I can get the word out. Because Im treated very unfairly by the press. And it is what it is.
No, we want to fight. The big guys. We want to fight. We have to bring our country back.
Our country was going in the wrong direction. Thats right. You couldnt build. You couldnt do anything. Our country was going in the wrong direction. And by the way, what they were doing to religious liberty. They were destroying religious liberty. You will be saying Merry Christmas again very soon.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Such a great honor.
