Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Holds a Cabinet Meeting at The White House|June 21, 2018
Hello, everybody. Thank you very much for being here. Its a Cabinet meeting, and we have plenty of things to discuss and plenty of success. Weve had a tremendous amount of success.
Were working, however, right now on immigration, which has been going on for many years. We have come up with a lot of solutions, but we have Democrats that dont want to approve anything because thats probably, they think, bad for the election thats coming up. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people suffering, and thats unfortunate.
Unrelated, and before we get into that, the new employment claims recently out just yesterday show that we have the lowest level in nearly a half a century. Thats something that is an incredible statistic. And in half a century. Thats a long time.
And the economy is booming. Its doing really well. Were renegotiating trade deals. Were doing very well on those trade deals. Its taking a little period of time. We put tariffs on certain countries and certain industries where its been very unfair to the United States. Our Treasury has taken in billions of dollars. And these other countries are coming along that have not treated us well, and they are negotiating very vigorously. And lots of good things are happening.
This should have been taken care of a long time before my administration came into being. But for some reason, for 25, 30 years, nobody ever looked at trade deals. Theyre out of control, how bad they are. But were going them very good. And were going to make them fair for both countries -- for our country and for whichever country were dealing with. And there are plenty of them because theyre all bad. Theres nothing good.
My administration is also acting swiftly to address the illegal immigration crisis on the southern border. Loopholes in our immigration laws, all supported by extremist, open-border Democrats -- and thats what they are. Theyre extremist, open-border Democrats. If you look at Nancy Pelosi and you look at Chuck Schumer, youll see tapes where they wanted to have borders -- they needed borders for security -- just a short while ago.
A number of years ago, I see Chuck Schumer -- "We must have borders." Hillary Clinton -- "We must have borders. If people penetrate our borders, we must get them out of our country." Now, all of a sudden, theyre big open-border people. Its a whole big con job. In the meantime, people are suffering because of the Democrats.
So weve created, and theyve created, and theyve let it happen -- a massive child-smuggling industry. Thats exactly what its become. Traffickers -- if you think about this -- human traffickers are making a fortune. Its a disgrace.
These loopholes force the release of alien families and minors into the country when they illegally cross the border. Since 2014 alone, nearly 200,000 unaccompanied alien minors have been released into the United States as a result of Democrat-backed loopholes, including catch-and-release, which is one of the worst.
You catch them, and then you release them. Might as well save your time. Dont bother catching them. And this is what were stuck with. Theyre the worst immigration laws in the history of the world. The whole world is laughing at the United States, and they have been for years.
These alien minors were separated and sent all the way up here alone. But they really came up with coyotes. You know what a coyote is. Not good. These are not good people. They were sent up here with human traffickers because the Democrat-supported policies have allowed this to happen.
Democrats also refuse to fund the personnel, the bed space, the resources that we need to house the minors. Now, they want us to take care of the minors, and thats fine. But they dont want to give us the money to take care of them. Because the worse everything looks, they think, the better theyre going to do, with respect to the blue wave. Which is turning out, frankly, to be a red wave if you look at the polls. I think were going to have a red wave, not a blue wave.
So they want us to take care of bed space, and resources, and personnel, and take everybody. And, you know, like, lets run the most luxurious hotel in the world for everybody. But they dont want to give us the money. So you could ask them about that.
We have to house these minors, and we have to house them safely. And frankly, we have to house them. And we should be taking good care of them, and then we should return them back home. Thats what we have to do.
But every time we ask for resources, the Democrats say no. They say no to everything. Theyre obstructionists. Because they think thats good, politically. I think its bad, politically. For them, I think its bad, politically. Well see.
In addition, Democrat and court-ordered loopholes prevent family detention and lead to family separation, no matter how you cut it. I signed a very good executive order yesterday, but thats only limited -- no matter how you cut it, it leads to separation ultimately. Im directing HHS, DHS, and DOJ to work together to keep illegal immigrant families together during the immigration process and to reunite these previously separated groups.
But the only real solution is for Congress to close the catch-and-release loopholes that have fueled the child smuggling industry. The Democrats are causing tremendous damage, and destruction, and lives by not doing something about this. And they know that. They know that better than anybody up there with a pen.
If we dont close these loopholes, there is no amount of money or personnel in the world to address the crisis. Very serious crisis. Been going on so long. This isnt Trump administration. You look back at 2014, during the Obama administration, they have pictures that were so bad. They had a judge that said it was inhumane the way they were treating children.
Take a look at some of the court rulings against the Obama administration. They talked about inhumane treatment. I read them; I looked at them. They’re all over the place. Inhumane treatment. They were treating them terribly. We have a situation where some of these places, theyre really running them well. And I give a lot of credit to Secretary Nielsen and all of the people that have worked this. Its the nicest that people have seen. But its still something that shouldnt be taking place.
My wife, our First Lady, is down now at the border because it really bothered her to be looking at this and to seeing it, as it bothered me, as it bothered everybody at this table. Were all bothered by it. But we need two to tango. We have 51 votes in the Senate. We need 60, unfortunately, because we have the ridiculous filibuster rule. So we need 60.
And I think Ill get four or five or six from senators, frankly, running in states where I won by 25, 30, 40 points with Mike. And I think well get six senators, maybe well get seven senators. That still doesnt get us to 60. So theres nothing you can do to get there. And people dont understand that. When we have a majority in the Senate, we have a majority by one, but we need ten votes.
So we need 10 -- essentially, we need 10 Democrats. Not going to get them. Theyre told by Schumer and Pelosi, "Dont do it because we want to see if we can pick up seats." They dont care about the children. They dont care about the injury. They dont care about the problems. They dont care about anything. All they do is say, "Obstruct, and lets see how we do." Because they have no policies that are any good. Theyre not good politicians. They got nothing going. All theyre good at is obstructing.
And they generally stick together. I respect them for that. Thats about it. Their policies stink. Theyre no good. They have no ideas. They have no nothing -- the Democrats. All they can do is obstruct, and stay together, and vote against, and make it impossible to take care of children and families and to take care of immigration.
We should be able to make an immigration bill that can really solve the problem, not just -- this is one aspect of it. This is one very important but small aspect of it. We should be able to do a bill. Id invite them to come over to the White House anytime they want. This afternoon would be good. After the Cabinet meeting would be good. They are invited, officially. Ill let you do the inviting. Let the press do the inviting.
But we have to do something about immigration in this country. For 50 years, and long before that, it was a disaster. But over the last 20, 25 years, its gotten worse. Every time they write a rule or regulation, it makes it worse, not better. We can solve this problem.
We have to hire thousands of judges. No country in the world is hiring judges like that. They hire border people that -- you cant come into the country. Mexico, by the way, is doing nothing for us. Nothing. They have the strongest immigration laws. They can do whatever they want. They can keep people out of Mexico. You have a 2,000-mile journey up Mexico. They walk through Mexico like its walking through Central Park. Its ridiculous. Mexico does nothing for us.
So then when people say, "Why are you being so tough with NAFTA?" And I am being tough because we -- its a terrible deal for the United States. Mexico is making $100 billion a year off us and the horrible NAFTA deal. And I am being tough. One of the reasons Im being tough is because they do nothing for us at the border. They encourage people, frankly, to walk through Mexico and go into the United States because theyre drug traffickers, theyre human traffickers, theyre coyotes. I mean, were getting some real beauties.
Mexico is doing nothing for us except taking our money and sending us drugs. Theyre doing nothing. They could solve this problem in two minutes; you wouldnt even have to do anything. But they dont do it. They talk a good game, but they dont do it. So well see how that all comes out. Itll be very interesting to see.
So with that, Ill end by saying we had a tremendous success in North Korea. We continue to work on that. Mike Pompeo has been fantastic. John Bolton, working together with Mike, has been fantastic. I dont even know where -- there he is. I thought he might have gone back to North Korea.  He spent so much time in North Korea. Surprised to see you here.
But I think I can speak for both of us in saying its been an incredible experience. The relationship is very good. Theyve stopped the sending of missiles, including ballistic missiles. Theyre destroying their engine site. Theyre blowing it up. Theyve already blown up one of their big test sites. In fact, it was actually four of their big test sites. And the big thing is, it will be a total denuclearization, which is already starting taking place.
And I understand, Mike, that theyve already sent back, or are in the process of sending back, the remains of our great heroes who died in North Korea during the war. And thats already in the process of coming back.
Plus, as you all know very well, we got back our hostages -- our three hostages, who are right now living very happily with their families, and were very happy about that. So weve made tremendous progress with respect to North Korea, even since I last spoke to you. What we agreed to do is have a meeting. I know that some of the media says, "Oh, they agreed to meet." Well, yeah, anybody would have agreed to meet, and it would not have been possible for past administrations to have met in the way that weve met. This was an incredible, important meeting.
All over Asia, theyre in love with the United States because of what weve done. And Japan, I spoke to Prime Minister Abe, and he was so thrilled. He doesnt have rockets going over Japan. That makes him very happy, General. You know that, right? Hes very thrilled not to see rockets going over Japan. There were plenty of them sent right over Japan, and he said, I want to thank you because what youve done is incredible. There are no more rockets going, and theres no thought of it.
Now, things can change. I said it last night at a speech. Things can change. Personalities can change. Maybe you end up with conflict, maybe you don’t. But the relationship that Mike has and I have with Chairman Kim and his group is a very good one, very strong one. And I think its going to lead to tremendous success.
But the document we signed, if people actually read it to the public, youd see: Number one statement, we will immediately begin total denuclearization of North Korea. Nobody thought that would be possible.
If you remember, a year and a half ago when Mike and I came into office and when this group came into office, everybody was talking about theres going to be a war -- going to be a war with North Korea. During the Obama years, thats all I heard about: War with North Korea. You have 28 million people, 30 miles away from the border where they have thousands of massive -- they call them "cannons." And thats what they are. Theyre bigger than howitzers. And theyre all aimed at Seoul.
Seoul has 28 million people. And it would be not a catastrophe of 100,000 people or 200,000, like Id read from you. This was a -- this could have been a catastrophe of 30-, 40-, 50 million people. And I think were very close to having that situation solved. Weve had some very good news, even over the last couple of days. They want to get it done. We want to get it done. And were moving quickly.
So North Korea has been an incredible experience for me, and I -- were going to help them also get back on track. We think that it has tremendous potential. Chairman Kim thinks it has tremendous potential. I want to also thank, as you know, Prime Minister Abe. I want to thank President Moon from South Korea. Hes been terrific. Hes been really moving it along and pushing as hard as they can. But without the United States, it had no chance whatsoever.
I also wanted to thank President Xi of China because the border was very strong during a very critical period. Unfortunately, the border is getting a little bit weaker now, but thats okay. Thats okay. But we have to get him to keep it tough. But I do want to thank President Xi of China.
So with all of that, were having tremendous numbers, tremendous economic success. I think were having the most successful period of time, economically, perhaps in our countrys history. GDP numbers have been great, but the ones that are coming out, Im really looking forward to seeing them. I think youre going to see numbers -- I just see the activity, I see the business.
Yesterday and last evening was really -- that was an incredible evening that we spent. That was, to me, just an incredible evening. A lot of you were there. I see a lot of the faces. A lot of you were there. At least 15,000 people couldnt get into the arena. And the arena was big. It held 9,000 people. But sadly, 15,000 people couldnt get into the arena. But it was a very special evening, and people had a good time. But they also heard a lot.
So I want to thank everybody very much. Mick Mulvaney is going to be giving a little report. You can do it in front of the media. Would the media like to hear Mick Mulvaneys report, or would you find it extraordinarily boring and therefore not fit for camera? I dont know.
Would you like to hear it?
No, and it will be good. And why dont we do this? Well say grace afterwards, Mike. And well do Mick, and then well say grace. We dont necessarily have to do that in front of the cameras. Okay? All right, Mick. Go ahead, please.
Good.
And by the way, that was incredibly said. Okay?  I think you should put that on television, not what I said.  That was very -- that was very good.
Youre doing a hell of a job. Ill tell you what, hes -- hes been in a lot of -- hes logged a lot of hours in airplanes going over. Its a 22, 23-hour flight. And its been -- its been a lot of time -- and you really worked good, and were very proud you.
Thank you very much, Mike. Thank you all very much. Appreciate it. How are you?
They got to get together and do something. Honestly, they have to get together. The question is: Whats my message to lawmakers, having to do with immigration? Theyve got to get together and do something. This has been going on for decades. And they have to sit down -- Ill be -- certainly, Im willing to do it. I just told you, Ill invite Senator Schumer and Nancy Pelosi. They can come over. They can bring whoever they want. But the lawmakers have to sit down and they have to do something because our country cannot continue to run like this.
We cant have open borders. You have to have borders. You dont have a country without borders. They have to be enforced. It has to be a strict enforcement. At the same time, we want people to come into our country. We need them. We have many companies, right now, moving back into the United States. They need workers. We have 3.8 percent unemployment. They need workers. We have to have them come in.
You know, Im saying, I want people to come in. They have to come in through a merit system. But we can have a lot of people come into our country through the merit system so they can help these companies that are looking so hard for people to make the company work.
But the -- in a very, very simple way, Congress has to get together, get their act together. Democrats and Republicans. They have to come up with a solution. I have ideas, they have ideas. We can put them together very easily.
Theres so much hatred. Theres so much -- I mean, honestly, Im not saying this -- I mean, theres a lot of false reporting, a lot of misreporting. Theres also a lot of great reporting. But Congress has to come together and this is the best time to do it.
Right now, I think is the best time Ive seen for people that really are well-meaning. Now, unfortunately, we have an election coming up in a few months and, you know, I guess theyre looking at it and were looking at it and maybe we have to just sort of put on the blinders when it comes to doing that.
But Congress has to get together and we have to do something on immigration. Its very important. We have to change almost everything thats been done in the past. Its ridiculous. We are being laughed at as a country because of our bad immigration policies. And you know, were a young administration. This has been going on for 50 years, 60 years, 70 years. But its gotten worse over the last 20 because laws have been so complex and so ridiculous.
We really dont have a law. We have laws that dont allow you to do what youre supposed to be doing. And we also want to keep it in a very humane way. We want to take care of people. If we dont take them in, we have to help. And we also need help from Mexico. Mexico has not helped us, and we need help from Mexico. So thats a long answer, but I also appreciate the great job youve done.
Yes?
Say it. I cant hear you.
Well, we want to put them together. We dont want to have people -- we dont want to have children separated from their parents. You have to understand, you gave an example yesterday of 12,000 children. Of the 12,000, 10,000 came up either alone -- they werent necessarily young children, but either alone or they came up with traffickers and coyotes. And these coyotes are bad dudes.
But they came up with other people, brought them up. And they used them. Theyre using these children. Thats 10,000 out of the 12. Of the 2,000, a lot of the people, well, they came in with their children. This is their third, fourth, fifth time trying to come into our country.
So this is not a perfect situation, this is a very bad -- now, port of entry -- if you go to a port of entry, it works out very nicely. Theyve been doing a very good job. But they dont want to come in through the port of entry.
Thats called "doing it the legal way." But many of the people in the 2,000 category, youre talking about 2,000 children, those are people that have tried to come into our country many times, the same way. They dont want to go into the port of entry. Usually, thats for a very bad reason. Why dont they want to go in legally? So you have to ask yourself that question.
So you have a situation that is ripe for Congress to get together and come up with a solution. And I am ready, willing, and able to help. And ready, willing, and able to take this pen right here and sign very quickly.
If you took zero tolerance away, you would be overrun as a country. Youd have millions of people pouring through our border. If you took zero tolerance away, everybody would come, right now. Theyd be getting their little belongings, unfortunately, and they would be heading up. You would be -- you would have a run on this country the likes of which nobodys ever seen.
So we have to have strong borders. Frankly, the wall, in terms of drugs, in terms of keeping certain people out that we dont want in this county, the wall is imperative. We have to have the wall. We started the wall. We have $1.6 billion. Were fixing tremendous amounts of wall where its been overrun. But we have to come up with a solution.
I would consider it, whether its North Korea, whether its so many other things. We have a lot of things. Look, Ive been given a very tough hand. Because I came up here, we had an economy that was going down. We had an Iran problem. We had a Middle East problem. Take a look at what was going on in the Middle East. Its a lot better now. Youre a lot smoother right now than anything you heard over the last eight years.
But we were given a lot of bad cards. One of the bad cards, we were given this immigration mess. And it was made worse by all of the different contradicting and the contradicting laws that have been passed.
So were going to work very hard with Mike Pence and with everybody else in this room. Were going to work very hard to see if we can solve the immigration problem. But we need Democrats to be able to do it. If theyre going to obstruct, it cant be done because the Republicans dont have the votes.
Now, I think were going to win additional Senate seats. That will help us a lot. But unless we get additional Senate seats, and unless we keep the House more or less like it is right now, youre not going to be able -- unless the Democrats are serious and they want to come along and they want to get immigration work done.
