Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Washington, DC|June 10, 2016
[Inaudible] This is my third time. And I think the first time it was only OK. The second time I was great. And this time we have to top it, OK? Thank you all for being here. Before we begin, really, I want to thank Ralph Reed. He's been an amazing -- just an amazing guy and amazing support. Terrific man.
And it's a great honor to be invited and invited back so many times and I'll be here as often as I can, believe me, because I'm with you a hundred percent. I also want to thank so many -- I've had so much support. As you know, we've done very well with the evangelicals and with religion. Generally speaking, if you look at what's happened with all of the races, whether it's in South Carolina, I went there and it was supposed to be very strong evangelical and I was not supposed to win and I won in a landslide.
And so many other places where you had evangelicals and we had the heavy Christian groups and it was just -- it's been an amazing -- it's been an amazing journey to us. I think we won 37 different states and the support that I've had from you folks has been incredible and I appreciate it very much. I happen to be [Inaudible] Happened to be Presbyterian there's three of you out there.
That's it's been -- it's been really something in some of my friends that are in the room I appreciate you being here. I want to really thank Jerry Falwell Jr. He was right from the beginning, he's been such a tremendous supporter of liberty as you know Liberty University jobs. Basketball life has been -- at -- right from the beginning.
I've known it for so long that she's a tremendous person tremendous woman. Pastor Mark Burns, I don't know if you've watched him on television between him and Pastor Darrell Scott. These two guys they're phenomenal. They have been so incredible. Robert Jeffress that we all know and love. He's been amazing and in the audience I think we have Richard Lee.
we have Jim Garlow and we have Father Frank Pavone someplace there in the audience so I appreciate you. I appreciate you being here. And I have to say though, that the world is such a different place even from when I started with this. We started 12 months ago and coming up I just see where in France they have a massive soccer tournament something that's so important and so big and they're thinking about maybe postponing it or canceling it because of threats and all the problems going on with what's happening with terrorism.
And it's a very, very sad thing and a very sad place. And who would have ever thought our world would be in a position like this where that would happen but you just see event after event. Radical Islamic terrorism is just taking over and we can't let that happen. We cannot let that happen. And if we're smart, and if we're tough, we won't let it happen just remember.
OK. It's an honor to speak here today and discuss our shared values. I'd like to thank all of the wonderful Christian leaders and Christian voters who have supported me. We've had tremendous support. Here we are and here are the goals that I thought I'd put some of these together and I did it just the other night because of this meeting and I wanted to come from me. From my heart.
We want to uphold the sanctity and dignity of life. Marriage and family as the building block of happiness and success. So as many, many very successful people are the happiest people the people that have that great religious feel and that incredible marriage, children, it's more important than the money, folks.
Believe me I know plenty with lots of money and they're not happy people. Religious freedom, the right of people of faith to freely practice their faith. So important. Yeah. Freedom of any kind means no one should be judged by their race or their color and the color of their skin should not be judged that way.
And right now we have a very divided nation. We're going to bring our nation together. I win when I bring [Inaudible]. The importance of faith to United States aside is really the people who go to church, who work and work in religious charities, so important, and share their values. These are the foundations of our society.
We must continue to forge our partnership with Israel and work to ensure Israel's security. Keeping people of faith safe from threats like radical Islam whether protecting them here or standing by Israel, all of us need to confront together the threat of radical Islam. We have to do it. Now, Hillary Clinton or as I call her crooked Hillary Clinton, refuses to even say the words radical Islam.
Refuses to say the words. This alone makes her unfit to be president. In fact -- in fact she wants a 500% increase in Syrian refugees to come into our country. No good. No good. Can't do it. [Inaudible] You know where they come from. Where they are.
[Inaudible] [Cheering] Refugees are welcome here. Refugees are welcome. [Inaudible] [Cheering]
Thank you very much. It's amazing. [Inaudible from the audience] All right. Thank you. Give them freedom of speech, please. Freedom of speech. Thank you. Very rude. [Inaudible] Thank you. Thank you, everyone. I appreciate it. Very sad. Very sad what's happening. Very, very sad. What's happening our country is so sad, we're so divided, it's such a shame.
And by the way, these are professional agitators, folks. They come in, they're sent here by the other party. But where we left, 500% increase in Syrian refugees without documentation. We don't know where they come from. Hillary will bring hundreds of thousands of refugees, many of whom have hostile beliefs about people of different faiths and values.
And some of whom absolutely and openly support terrorism in our country. We don't need that. We have enough problems. We have enough problems right now. Here's some of what we can accomplish together: Appoint judges, so important, who will uphold our laws, protect our constitution and protect the rights of all Americans.
And as you know, I put a list together of highly, highly respected judges and you will see and I think you've seen it and I'm pretty sure you did but a lot of people have really come together over that list. That's one of the most important reasons why we have to win the presidency. If we don't, it's going to be a whole different country.
By the way this series is a real pro-life. [Cheering. We will restore respect for people of faith, who dutifully raise their children follow our laws and rules and we have to really take care of that. We have to take care of our neighbors because right now our neighbors are not being taken care of. We have to restore the rule of law on our border, in our government, no matter where it is, it has to be restored.
By the way, we have a great respect to our police and law enforcement [Inaudible]. They're not being treated properly. So all this includes tough new ethics rules to restore dignity to the office of the secretary of state, which it hasn't [Inaudible]. They'll be the worst dealmakers I have ever seen. If you look at the Iran deal, truly one of the worst deals I've ever seen negotiated.
We will protect the right of churches to speak their minds on political matters free from intimidation. [Inaudible] controls to keep us safe from radical Islamic terrorism. Here is what Hillary Clinton would do to our country. She'll appoint radical judges, who will legislate from the bench overriding Congress and will -- And I'll tell you the will of the people will mean nothing, nothing.
Her judges will abolish the Second Amendment and destroy the rule of law. She wants to abolish the Second Amendment and I will tell you the National Rifle Association, the NRA, two weeks ago endorsed Donald Trump so... And I think it's the earliest endorsement they've ever given to a presidential candidate, so I was very honored.
They're great people, great people. She will keep Obamacare in place, which puts medical decisions in the hands of government. Not good. Obamacare, we will repeal and replace. She'll restrict religious freedom with government mandates. She'll push for federal funding of abortion on demand. Up until the moment of birth, which is where she is as you know.
She will undermine the wages of working people with uncontrolled immigration, creating poverty and income insecurity. Hillary Clinton's Wall Street agenda will crush working families. She'll put bureaucrats, not parents, in charge of our lives and our children's education, can't have it. She'll be trapping kids in failing schools.
She'll plunge our inner cities into even deeper poverty if that's possible. Hillary's agenda of taxation, and she wants to raise your taxes big league, folks, big league, get used to it. Here she wants to raise your taxes. Tremendous. Regulation bureaucracy, government control and open borders have economically destroyed our inner cities.
Her policies will be a crushing blow to all poor people in this country. Her education policies her economic policies, her immigration policies, and her trade policies will plunge our poor African-American and Hispanic communities into turmoil and even worse despair. Believe me, you look at what's going on. The Democrat Party has run the school boards and the police departments, and the city councils, and the mayors offices in most of our major cities, almost all of our inner cities.
They've run congressional offices. They've horribly failed in almost every single community. In fact, you could actually say in every community. I'm going to turn things around. Hillary Clinton has jeopardized, totally jeopardized, national security by putting her emails on a private server, all to hide her corrupt dealings.
This is the reason she did it, folks. It's to hide your corrupt deals. She's now under criminal investigation that was announced yesterday by the White House. I mean, it's a criminal investigation. The first time ever by the way a president of the United States endorsed somebody under criminal investigation.
Interesting. She even appointed to the National Security Board someone with no national security experience. Instead he was a donor a recent donor to Hillary Clinton's campaign and also gave as much as $250,000 dollars to this foundation. They're all -- Look, they said, "Where did this guy come from?" He made a contribution of 250,000. all of a sudden he's on his very important and vital board.
This decision dealt with tactical nuclear weapons and had top secret clearance he did nothing about it. Bill and Hillary made $153 million. Giving speeches to special interest groups since 2001. That's a lot of money, that's a lot of money. These donors own Hillary Clinton. They own them. And Bernie Sanders was right about that.
I have to tell you. If you work -- It's true. The bottom line is, I will be working for you. I just spent $55 million running against with my money. Not easy. But I just spent 55 million of my money running in the primaries. Other people spent many times that amount and they didn't do so well. When I worked for you.
I'm working for you. I'm doing this because I [Inaudible] Together, friends, we will chart a new optimistic course for America. We will put America first. When you look at our deals, our military, our trade deals, all of this, we don't put America first. I don't think anybody negotiating these deals even knows anything about what they are doing and I don't think they care about America being first.
I care and you care and that's what it's going to be. And that's a big part of why I'm challenging Hillary Clinton today to replace her support for increased refugee admissions. We have to do it for a new jobs program for our inner cities. We have to take care of the people that are here. We have to temporarily stop this whole thing with what's going on with refugees where we don't know where they come from.
But we have to take a rest. We have to take a time out. We have to use the money to take care of our poorest Americans and work with them. So they can come out of this horrible situation that we're in. We will restore faith to its proper mantle in our society. That's what we have to do to have. We have to do that sooner.
We will respect and defend Christian Americans, Christian Americans. We will give parents control over their schools. So important. We'll uphold the values our founders gave us, which we're not doing now. We will work together to rebuild and restore and lift up everyone. Not a certain group, everyone, the whole country will lift up. We will make America great again for all Americans.