Donald Trump|Interview: Tucker Carlson Interviews Donald Trump in Helsinki|July 17, 2018
Thank you.
Well, I think Brennan is a very bad guy. And if you look at it, a lot of things happened under his watch. I think he is a very bad person.
I also think that when you watch Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, when you watch all of the things that happened, and Comey, take a look at that, and McCabe who has got some pretty big problems, I assume, you look at the deception, the lies, whats gone on in the last fairly long period of time - before I won.
I mean, long before I won. During the campaign. I guess probably during the Republican - when I was fighting against 17 other Republicans. So, this has been going on for a long time.
But these are people that, in my opinion, are truly - theyre bad people. And they are being exposed for what they are and its a shame that it has to happen, but its really hurt our country.
Its sort of incredible because if you look at World War I and World War II, that was Germany. And in World War II, Russia lost 50 million people and helped us win the war.
I was saying to myself the other day, I said Russia really helped us. Im not pro-Russia, pro-anybody. I just want to have this country be safe. I dont want nuclear weapons, even people thinking about it. Russia and the United States control 90 percent of the nuclear weapons in the world.
And getting along with Russia - and not only for that reason - thats a good thing.
Well, they are a strong military, but their economy is much smaller, as you know, than China. I dont want to even use the word adversary. We can all work together. We can do great. Everybody can do well and we can live in peace.
But I think its very, very important. And Ive watched your show a lot and I see how youre talking about really the magnificent size of China, you look at the size of what theyve done in a fairly short period of time, thats because of a lot of bad leadership on behalf of the United States. We allowed that to happen. We allowed them to make hundreds of billions of dollars.
Right now, as you see and you probably have noticed that things are happening. We have to bring it more into line. We have to level the playing field between the United States and China.
And weve increased our net worth. Weve increased our worth by more than $7 trillion since the election. And were about twice the size of China, our economy.
But China still is a massive economy. They have the second biggest by far.
Well, that was the purpose.
And its OK. Its fine, but they have to pay. And they werent paying. And other presidents went and theyd make a speech and then theyd leave and nothing would happen.
And the fact that they didnt pay is not a new fact. This is something that people have known for a long time.
Other countries were delinquent. In the real estate business, we use the word delinquent. They didnt pay. They didnt pay for past.
So, I went there three or four days ago and I said, folks, youve got to pay because were not going to pay it from 70 to 90 - and I think 90 is really the right - depending on the way you define it, 90 percent - were not going to pay 90 percent of the costs to defend Europe.
And on top of that, the European Union kills us on trade. We lost $151 billion last year on trade. They dont take our product. They dont take our farmers, beautiful goods. They dont take our cars. And if they do, the rate of tax is many times what we would charge them. We only charge them 2.5 percent. Their tariff is very substantially higher.
I mean, in the case of China, we charge 2.5 percent when they send a car. And when we send a car into China, they charge us 25 percent. How is that fair trade?
People say, we dont want tariffs, but how is that fair when one country gets 25 percent and another country gets 2.5 percent? And by the way, the one getting 25 doesnt even want the cars. They want them to build those factories - they want those factories built in China. They want those factories built in Europe.
So, now, were doing things that have never been done before in this country and you see whats going on. Its been very pleasant to watch.
I understand what youre saying. Ive asked the same question. Montenegro is a tiny country with very strong people.
By the way, theyre very strong people. Theyre very aggressive people. They may get aggressive. And, congratulations, you are in World War III.
Now, I understand that. But thats the way it was set up. Dont forget, I just got here a little more than a year-and-a-half ago.
But I took over the conversation three or four days ago and I said, you have to pay. You have to pay.
And the secretary general said that, because of President Trump, last year, we had an additional $44 billion raised for NATO. And this year, its going to be much more than that. And the countries all agreed. It was very unfair. They werent paying.
So, not only are we paying for most of it, but they werent even paying and were protecting them. Add that to your little equation on Montenegro.
Not one.
And, in fact, one of my big things - and some people were insulted - I think a year ago, they would have been totally insulted. Now, maybe there could have been a couple out of all of those countries.
I said the immigration policies in Europe are a disaster, youre destroying Europe, youre destroying the culture of Europe, the crime is up in those areas and you better do something. I tell them that.
Look, its not me, its not anything, you just look at the numbers and the numbers speak. But the culture is changing rapidly and the crime rate is changing more than rapidly. You better do something. I told them that.
Well, we have to be very strong on the border. Now, were much stronger than we ever were on the border and our numbers are much lower, but still were getting the wall. Were putting in about $5 billion. Weve already started the wall, 1.6 billion. Started in San Diego, California. Its almost completed in that area.
And by the way, the people are really asking for it. Its interesting. They probably go down as we dont want the wall, but when it came to their backyard, they wanted that wall and they wanted it up fast.
But weve started the wall. We are going to continue with the wall. Its so necessary. But we have to have strong immigration policies. Our laws are so bad, Tucker, somebody comes in and they step in our land and now we end up with a court case that takes seven years, but the people never show up to court.
Its so bad and we have to do something about it. Like, if they come into our land, we have to say, Im sorry, you have to leave. Not Im sorry, please come to court; were going to put you in court, youll come back in three years for your trial and then they never show up. Thats whats happening now. Its crazy.
Its incredible. I mean, the Democrats are for open borders, which means crime. Its not a question of, like, what do you think it means. Open borders means crime.
And you look at - MS-13 is pouring in and we stop them better than anybody else could. But when they get through - and then we send ICE because ICE is tougher than they are. And now I understand theres a big move to try and get rid of ICE.
But MS-13, these are tough, vicious people. They dont like guns. They like using knives better because its more painful. These are vicious people. And you know the story. You cover it plenty.
And ICE goes in and they get them out. They get them out. They put them in jail or they throw them out of the country and they dont even think about it.
And now, theres a movement to get rid of ICE because ICE is tough. If you dont have tough people doing that job, youre going to have crime like youve never seen it.
So, it is incredible. The Democrats want open borders which is basically saying we want open borders, we want crime.
Maybe its a political philosophy that they grew up with. Maybe they learned it at school. Maybe they are fools. I dont know.
Well, I dont think of the timing as much as I think of other timing. Barack Obama was president - I wasnt president when this happened. Barack Obama was the president of the United States when all of this - this was when I was getting elected.
So, I was being elected. And, I guess, I assume this stuff all took place in that area or before. And he was president. And they informed him of it and he did nothing.
And then, after I won - see, he thought Hillary was going to win. After I won, he said this is a big deal. Well, it wasnt a big deal as long as she won.
So, its a disgrace. And, frankly, its a disgrace whats happening to our country.
So, as Ive told you, and the answer is, absolutely, it is possible. And maybe, at some point, it will be done. But Ive wanted to stay out. My Department of Justice is the one branch, the one group that Im very little involved in. Same with the FBI.
Am I disappointed that theyre not looking at all of the crooked things taking place on the other side, like the Pakistani man who left with these three servers, knew everything about Schultz? Knew everything. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. And I think he had three servers.
I believe they even had them and they dont want to use him. For the DNC, where the server was never taken by the FBI, they went in there and Podesta or somebody threw them out of the office. They said get out of here.
And yet, they go after other people like theres no tomorrow. And you understand that. I spoke to you about it before. As they said, you are winning, dont get involved because I dont want to have people accuse me of anything. So, Ive stayed very much uninvolved.
But am I allowed to be involved? Totally. Will I be involved? Well have to see as it goes along. I mean, right now, people are finding out a lot of things that they never thought.
And in all fairness to the IG report, it was an unbelievable report except at the end where they sort of tried to be politically correct. But when you talk about bias, there has never been biased like that.
Strzok, on the other hand, that was totally bias. But that report was a good report except for the basic conclusion. Which wasnt even bad.
So, Angela was a superstar until she allowed millions of people to come into Germany. That really hurt her badly as you know. She was unbeatable in any election. She allowed millions of people to come in.
And when they came into Germany, they passed everywhere else and they went to lots of other countries, although Hungry would not take any in. But what happened is it was a great migration.
And, obviously, its hurt Angela very much. I dont want to say who is better, who is not better, but I will say this. Shes been very badly hurt by immigration. Very, very badly.
Id say probably none.
Id say how about asking me about Japan, how about asking me about South Korea, how about asking me about a lot of other countries that are very successful?
I dont even think that people making the decision would want to waste the phone call. Theres no chance. Check out Japan. Ask them. How many have you taken in the last one year? You can count them on your fingers.
No, its different.
Im not even talking about key to success. And it depends on what immigration, whats going on. But youre asking me about China and I added Japan, I added South Korea, I could add other countries also. It is virtually impossible.
Ill tell you what Mexico has very strong immigration laws. If Mexico wanted, they could stop this huge flow of people coming up from different parts of South America, including Mexico, and pouring into our border.
Our laws are so bad. We have the worst laws anywhere in the world. We have the worst immigration laws in the world. We dont have any law. We have an opposite to law.
And then, on top of it, you have the right to separate children, OK. So, everything is bad, but you have the right to separate children.
Its really disgraceful that the Democrats arent doing something about it because we need their votes, as you know. So, I hope were going to get enough Republicans that we dont need them come November.
But the Democrats, we need their votes. We have, as you know, 51. And even the 51 is not really there for obvious reasons in the Senate. And in the House, its fairly close. We need Democrat votes in order to get it done.
And they really just want to resist. Their whole thing is resist, right? Thats their big theme. Resist. What do you get from resistance? But its resist and obstruct. Thats what they are all about. Its the only thing theyre good about.
They are not good politicians. They have got horrible policy, but they are very good at sticking together and resisting and obstructing. But thats hurting our country. But well get the immigration laws changed.
