Donald Trump|Interview: The Wall Street Journal Interviews Donald Trump|October 23, 2018
Yeah, its a rough statement.
Oh, but let me -- Ill get this -- do you guys want something to drink? Lets let them move that, yeah. Im good. I have a glass up there.
Well, we have our people coming back as we speak. Ginas over there and numerous other people. They went to Turkey and they went to Saudi Arabia and they went someplace else. And Ill have a very good idea some time tomorrow evening. Theyre on the way back now. Theyre literally on the way back now.
Its a very -- its a very sad situation and, obviously, poorly handled from beginning to end. Certainly is something that never should have been thought of no matter what. It should never have been thought of no matter what the original thought was, and as you know they have many different -- there are many different stories as to the original thought. But no matter what, from the least sinister to the most sinister -- and the most sinister is really bad. And then certainly the coverup, if thats what it was, which it seems like it was, was very poorly handled. Should have never happened.
Well, Id rather see the final reports because the real question is, did he know or did he not know at the outset? Not after it took place, but before it took place. And as you know, theyre making a very strong statement that they did not know at the high level -- at the highest level of Saudi Arabia, and I hope thats -- I hope thats going to be the case.
Well, the biggest mistake was --
Certainly the location was inappropriate, but doing it in the first place was the biggest mistake. Shouldnt have ever been done.
And, you know, I know you guys find this hard to believe Im saying, but the fact is that -- the fact that it was a reporter is terrible. It should have never been done. No, it shouldnt have even been in the thought process. But then once it was done it was obviously -- it was done horribly and it was -- it certainly seems to have been covered up horribly.
Yeah. Yeah.
Its different, certainly different the way theyve handled it. I spoke with President Erdogan yesterday. Now that we have Pastor Brunson back -- he was just here, I dont know if you saw.
But now that we have Pastor Brunson back, I always had a very -- really great relationship with President Erdogan. Then we went a little bit south after that happened, and now were back. And I had a very good conversation with him yesterday. But they are handling it tough. Theyre being tough.
Which is -- which is fine. Its appropriate. Dont forget, it happened in their country.
Yes.
Well, I mean, my message to him -- my first question to him was, did you know anything about it, in terms of the initial planning? And he said he did not. And I said, where did this all start? And he said it started at a lower level. So I asked him about it a couple of times in a couple of different ways, and he claims that he did not know that. And, you know, I cant -- I cant report or tell you any different story. Thats what he says. I mean --
And I also said I think he should issue his own report. You know, theyre doing their own study and investigation, and I think they should issue their own report very quickly.
I want to believe him. I really want to believe him. Theyve been a very good ally. Theyve been a tremendous investor in our military equipment and other things. They buy tremendous amounts of things from our country. It probably amounts to millions of jobs, you know, a million jobs. Thats a lot of jobs. So I certainly want to believe him.
So theyre running their own country, and thats a determination for them to make. Certainly it would be a very bad thing in terms of relationship. It would take a while to rebuild. If you look at what theyre doing, theyve been a very good ally with respect to Iran and with respect to Israel.
And it would be a -- it would be an -- it would be a very, very big change if we -- you know, we have a very, very strong and positive thing going on in the Middle East for the first time in many years. Iran is not the same country since I took away the -- you know, the -- you know, its a different country.
When I first came here, lets say the day before -- Ill say the day before I came in, Iran was looking good. They were going to take over everything: Syria, Yemen. They were going for -- they were going to take over -- who knows where it stopped. And since Ive been here and specifically since I did the move that I wanted to do -- people asked me not and I gave them a little time, but ultimately they were wrong -- but since Ive taken -- you know, Ive terminated that deal, the Iran deal -- the Iran nuclear deal, to be specific -- since I terminated the deal, theyre not the same country. I see it in many different ways.
Their economy has crashed. Their currency has crashed. Theyre having riots every week, big ones, in every city. Theyre not the same country. Theyre bringing back soldiers from places that would be unthinkable six months ago or a year ago.
Yeah.
Well, Jared never did business with him, by the way, you know. So just so you know.
But you know, they’re two young people. They got along well. They didn’t see each other. It’s a long way away. But it’s not a question of regret. I’d be disappointed if this took place.
Now, if you look at Iran, this is—you know, what they do is—take a look at all the people they’ve killed. I mean, they’re the number-one state sponsor of terror in the world.
So heres what I -- heres what Im going to do. Its a fair question. The Kavanaugh hearing was very interesting, and I was given the power to oversee the FBI investigation. I was the one that was supposed to do it, by statute.
And I decided that no matter what I did, if I said lets make it 10 years, the investigation, and lets use every single person in the FBI to do it, people would say, oh, he should do more than that. And what I did is I said I want the Senate to do and whatever they want me to do I will so order. And it went really very flawlessly. You know, and it was well-received because whatever they wanted -- if they wanted a week, I gave them a week. They wanted this or they wanted an extension, I would have given them an extension.
And Im going to do something very similar here. Im going to give Congress -- and you have some very interested people in Congress on both sides. You have people that do not want to lose $450 billion worth of investment and you have others that think that we should. I disagree with them. But Im going to let the people in Congress head it along with myself, as opposed to by myself. Because if I do by myself everybody, including the media, no matter what I do, will say, oh, gee, why couldnt you have done this or that.
Thats true. I wanted it speedy. And I could do that.
I know. Thats true, which is the only thing. Youre right. Theyre out for a little while. But regardless, I just want to do it that way. I think Im going to do it that way.
Well, I would -- I would tell them upfront that I think that would be a very foolish thing to do. And then if they came, I would certainly at least think about it. But I think -- I think if we do that, were hurting ourselves much more than were hurting Saudi Arabia. If we cancel $450 billion -- dont forget, you were on the trip, I think -- I went to Saudi Arabia.
It was unbelievable. But I went to Saudi Arabia first, not because of any reason other than I said if Im going to go first -- they wanted me to go there so badly -- I would like you, as a sign of good faith, to order a large amount of equipment and other things from the United States that would create jobs, economic development.
And we agreed to a number of $450 billion. Theres never been anything like that. And I put them first on my list. And I really -- I like the king. I did speak to the king, too. I dont think the king was involved. I think its -- I dont think -- I mean, the king is -- I dont feel that the king -- the king is involved.
Its -- it gets done over a period of time.
No, but a lot of -- a lot of the contracts were handed out that day. And there were letters of intent and different things. But, Michael, its a lot. Even if you took it and made it a lot less than that, its the largest order ever made.
Well, the prince is running things over there more so at this stage. The crown prince -- hes running things, and so if anybody were going to be in it would be him. Just my feeling. I spoke with the king. I dont believe -- you know, he denied it very, very strongly. I got to know him fairly well. And I dont think he knew about this. And the crown prince denied it equally vociferously, and I hope that he didnt know about it too.
I think theres a difference if he knows about it or doesnt. Now, he knew about it after it took place, but so did you, so did I.
No, the only thing is that, you know, Congress is out now for a little while.
But we can get them a lot of information. We have a lot of information. Well get them a lot of information, then well make a decision together. Congress would like to be involved in this one.
No, I dont think so. Well, the press is going crazy over this. Theyre going crazy. Well, its a whole -- its a -- its a potentially a very brutal story, depending on the way it all happened.
Id rather report to you in a day or two because theyre all coming back now.
They have a lot of information. I actually said dont give it to me on the phone. I dont want it on the phone. As good as these phones are supposed to be
On what? On the what?
Well, I said before I was president that was --
I mean, you had, what, 18 people and I think, 17 -- whatever it is. Only one didnt. Well, I -- thats right. And I was always critical of President Bush for attacking Iraq. I said, Iraq did not knock down the World Trade Center. They came out of Saudi Arabia. And they went to -- they went to Afghanistan. But out of the 15 --
It was 19 and 18. Oh, was it 15? OK. Whatever. It was a vast -- you know, so out of 19, 14 were Saudi.
Fifteen were Saudi.
And thats whats reported now, I assume. But I assume thats been the number were hearing, 15 -- 15 out of the 19, yeah. Say it again?
Oh, I think they have. I think they have -- Well, they have a very big relationship to maintaining the relationship. Dont forget, if it wasnt for us, it could very well be that Saudi Arabia wouldnt last very long. Ive been saying that. Ive asked in a very strong fashion -- before this happened -- Ive asked Saudi Arabia to pay us a tremendous amount of money for defense.
Were defending Saudi Arabia. They have -- theyre a vastly wealthy country, and were defending them, and were not being reimbursed for our costs. A very small percentage is being reimbursed. And Ive told them -- and other countries -- this is no secret. Ive been saying this to a lot of people. But there are other countries that are very wealthy.
You know, it’s one thing if we’re defending somebody, a country that’s really being horribly harmed and—that’s one thing—and doesn’t have economic strength. But, you know, we defend countries that are immensely wealthy, and then don’t ask for anything -- then don’t ask for anything. So that’s the story -- we can’t have that.
This is a resolution. Well, this -- Ive been working on this with Kevin Brady for a long time. And because were doing so well -- we couldnt have done this originally. I would have put it into the original bill. But we couldnt have done it originally because we -- you know, weve become -- I mean, were doing really well. The numbers are really good.
Well, well define it. Well have to -- well have to define that. I mean, there is a definition, but well make sure the definition is right.
This would not be for business. Now, this would be in addition, because the middle class did very well with the original bill. I would have put this into the original bill, but at that time nobody thought we would do as well as were doing -- you know, the 4.2 and it looks like were going to have another good quarter coming up.
Because I think its a good thing for the middle class. And dont forget, thats money that gets distributed back into the economy. In a different way than a business would do it, but its money distributed back into the economy. And we are going to do -- were doing very well.
No, I just -- were going to a 10%. No, thatll be -- thatll be -- will be a great thing for the middle class. I think the middle class deserves it. The middle class has been forgotten for many, many years. I call it the forgotten men and women. They came out, and they like Trump. But the fact is the middle class has been forgotten for many years. And what were going to do -- this would be a resolution, because theyre out, but were doing the resolution now.
They have to -- when they get back, well do the actual filings.
We have a way. Were going to -- were going to announce it at that time, but we think we can make it revenue neutral based on certain --
In fact, if you call Kevin Hassett, let him tell you, because I was going over it. Kevin will give it to you. You know Kevin very well.
And this is money that comes back, because its money thats going to be spent on buying cars -- hopefully cars made in the U.S.A., by the way -- but its going to be spent on things that we make and sell in the United States.
The Fed.
To me, the Fed is the biggest risk because I think that -- I think interest rates are being raised too quickly. I think, to me, the biggest risk is the Fed, because my trade deals are great deals. And the tariffs -- you saw what I put out today on the tariffs, I guess, did you see I put out a little social media.
We have a lot of money coming into this country, people dont realize. And ultimately, Ill use it to negotiate. And if they dont negotiate a free -- dont forget, they wouldnt even meet with President Obama, Europe and these other countries. They wouldnt even meet. You know, the European Union wouldnt even meet. They said, we are very happy with the deal.
Well, Im not happy with the deal. And if they dont do the right thing, Ill put tariffs on the cars. And if they do, there wont be any tariffs. And tariffs are a great negotiating -- now, tariffs essentially ended in 1913, and the country was rich. If you read some of McKinleys speeches, they were very interesting. He talked about we will not allow the outsider to come in and take our wealth from us without having to pay.
I could never have done it without tariffs. Without tariffs I could have never made the deal.
No, because I said, look, fellows, I say that -- I say that all the time. I have nothing to hide. If I put tariffs on cars coming in from the European Union -- Mercedes Benzes, you know, the BMWs, all of them; millions of cars pouring in. If I put a 25% or a 20% tariff on those cars, the money would be staggering that we would take in.
They wouldn’t meet with Obama, the European Union. Japan wouldn’t meet with Obama. And they wouldn’t meet with us either. After a few months I said, all right, that’s all right. So I called them up. I said, listen, we don’t have to meet with you anymore; we’re just going to put tariffs on your cars coming in. They were in my office the next day.
We dont have any tariffs.
Its so much nonsense, OK. This is your story. We dont even have tariffs. Im using tariffs to negotiate. I mean, other than some tariffs on steel -- which is actually small, what do we have? I didnt put them on the USMCA. We have a trade deal. I didnt put them on in South Korea. We have a trade deal. That was the worst deal. That was a deal made by Hillary Clinton. It was a horrible deal. We made it into a sound deal.
But I didnt put tariffs. Where do we have tariffs? We dont have tariffs anywhere. I read that today: Were worried about the tariffs. You know what happens? A business thats doing badly always likes to blame Trump and the tariffs because its a good excuse for some incompetent guy thats making $25 million a year.
But think of it, Michael. We dont have tariffs. Where do we have tariffs? Im talking tariffs. Ill use tariffs. I mean it. Ive said I was going to put tariffs on European Union cars, right? They came to my office. We made the concept of a deal. Well see what happens. But they agreed to a deal that they wouldnt even talk about. Theres no tariffs.
I dont know. Im just saying this. Im very unhappy with the Fed, because Obama had zero interest rates and I have almost normalized -- and maybe normalized, depending on who youre talking to -- interest rates. You give me zero interest rates and you show me my numbers with zero interest rates. He had phony numbers because it was based on zero interest. Well, you know, he had -- he had zero interest.
lus, Obama took something where there was a lot more provision -- you know, there was a lot more potential for gain because, you know, it was at the bottom of a cycle. But forget that. Obama had zero interest rates. A very great guy last week was saying, If you give -- if you take what Trump has done and you leave interest rates where they were when I took over, wed have the greatest -- well, we already do; we already have -- but wed have the greatest economy in history.
Because in theory hes supposed to be independent. But Im not happy with what hes doing at all.
And it almost looks like hes happy raising interest rates.
I just dont like what hes doing. And I will let -- I will let him know through you because I leave him be, independent.
Its supposed to be interpreted. He can interpret it anyway he wants. Im just telling you Ive done very well with instinct. My instinct is that hes raising it too much. When we make -- when we -- every time we do something great, he raises the interest rates. We do great. How the hell do you compete with that? And Obama -- remember, this is very important -- Obama had zero interest. He had --
He was supposed to be a low-interest-rate guy. Its turned out that hes not.
Too early to say, but maybe.
Well, therell be a point when I would have to find out. Look, there are a lot of people that agree with me, just so we understand, you know. I read them all. I read everybody. There are a lot of people that agree with me.
So I have a hot economy going. Every time we do something, he raises rates. Now, what does that do? That means we pay more on debt, right? That means we pay more on debt and we slow down the economy, both bad things.
Now, when theres inflation, which theres not of any consequence, Im all for it. Id even do it more. Id rather do it slower and heavier, at a later date, if we need it. But the point is that you give -- you give me the interest rates that President Obama was paying -- anybody can do that with zero interest. But were paying almost a normalized rate. Some people think were paying a normalized rate. How many increases has he had? Five already? Five? Five. Five increases.
So we had a good quarter.
We had a good quarter. Were making, boom, and we have an interest-rate hike. So I like him as a person. I am not -- I disagree with him as to the raising of the rates. What Id rather do is keep the rates low and pay amortization.
Well, let me just say, because to me thats maybe the most important. I would like to see the rates be low and pay amortization, pay off debt. And when he keeps raising interest rates, you cant do that.
No level of action right now. But all Im saying is that I would like to pay -- I would like to have interest rates low and Id like to pay off debt. But you cant pay off debt when he keeps raising the interest rates. I mean, we had a case where he raised the interest rates right before we have a bond offering.
So you have a bond offering and you have somebody raising interest rates, so you end up paying more on the bonds. Now you tell me, does that -- does that make sense? To me it doesnt make sense. You understand what Im saying, Michael, right? With that being said, Im not happy, and thats my only expression. Its the only thing I can tell you.
What Id like to see is the interest rate be lower, and Id like to form the rest of it in the form of amortization, and even more than the combination of interest rate plus amortization. Id like to -- plus the gap.
Id like to pay amortization and start reducing debt. But how do you do that when he keeps raising interest rates on you? Id like to let all of that interest that hes raising pay off debt, and we could do that. Wed pay off a lot of debt.
OK.
So with all the -- Im not doing anything. Im independent. But Im allowed to say what I think. Thats what I think. I think hes making a mistake. I want to pay amortization. You cant pay amortization when hes raising interest rates, OK?
To the extent that theyre raising them.
About who?
Ive discussed that so much. Nobody cares about that.
Well, hes not allowed.
I mean, hes a lawyer. Hes got tremendous legal liability. Hes a lawyer. Its unthinkable that a lawyer would tape a client, that a lawyer would make statements to -- hes got tremendous legal liability. He shouldnt do that.
Yeah, I’m surprised that he did it, but one of those things. But that a lawyer would tape a client, that a lawyer would make statements to people, he’s not allowed to do that legally.
Hes got -- hes got -- all I can say is hes got tremendous legal liability for doing that.
Ive made all the statements.
Why do I have to say it again? Im just saying a lawyer cant do that. Now, he represented me on very small things. He was like a public-relations person. But he was also a lawyer. A lawyer cant do that. Can you imagine a lawyer taping a client? Ive seen lawyers that are very tough, very smart. Theyve told me, theyve said theyve never heard of that before. Theyve never even heard of it.
I was surprised.
I was surprised. Who knew? Anybody would be surprised. Now, of the tapes, there was one tape and that -- it was a meaningless tape. There were many other tapes, though. He taped many, many people. He was taping many people. Hey, I wasnt his only client. He was -- you know, he had clients. He had a lot of clients, I guess, over the years.
The other thing is -- this wasnt me. This was having to do with the taxi industry or something. But he has -- and financing, but nothing to do with me. But for a lawyer to tape a client is unthinkable. Ive dealt with -- Ive spoken to lawyers that were tough people, that have seen it all. Theyd never heard of that one. But remember this, that the one little tape, but he also taped many other people -- many, many people.
And those tapes, as Ive heard, are unbelievably complimentary to me.
OK. Well, wait a minute, thats a big point. But, you know, theyre unbelievable. OK, so this is used in writing.
I dont want to hear it on the radio or anything.
