Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Green Bay, Wisconsin|April 27, 2019
Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Thank you. Hello, Green Bay. Thank you. We love Green Bay. Thank you. Thank you. In the great state of Wisconsin, home of the legendary Green Bay Packers and theres no place Id rather be than right here in Americas heartland, right? And theres no one Id rather be with than you, the hardworking patriots, who make our country run so well and its running right now better, maybe than it ever has.
Thank you. The strength of our nation is found in the heart of our people, so true. Tonight, Americas heart is with the victims of the horrific synagogue shooting in Poway, California just happened. Our entire nation mourns the loss of life, prays for the wounded and stands in solidarity with the Jewish community.
We forcefully condemn the evil of anti-Semitism and hate, which must be defeated. Just happened, must be defeated. And we are grateful to the law enforcement personnel for their courageous response, incredible response today by law enforcement. And I especially want to recognize a certain off-duty border patrol agent who bravely returned fire and helped disrupt the attack and saved so many lives, border patrol.
And I also want to thank Mayor Steve Voss, we had a great conversation and Governor, Gavin Newsom, had a great conversation and we stand together. We will all get to the bottom of it. Were going to get to the bottom of a lot of things happening in our country. Together, were building a new chapter of American greatness.
One, founded on the idea that all citizens are entitled to live in safety, prosperity, and peace. This is an exciting time for our great country. This is an exciting time for America. Just yesterday it was announced that the United States economy grew some people thought unexpectedly, not me, I didnt think.
In fact, frankly, if we had the Obama interest rates low, almost nothing, actually nothing. And if we had quantitative easing instead of tightening, we used this conservative approach. We would have been even much higher than this. But this is very high. Far greater. First quarter is always for the most part, its the lowest quarter.
We did 3.2% in the first quarter GDP, crushing expectations and accelerating our economic growth and that was with a shutdown, that was with a lot of different things, that was with bad weather that was with everything you can imagine. Three point two in the first quarter, usually the lowest and worst quarter.
And Prime Minister Abe, where negotiating trade deals because every country has been ripping us off for years. And I really like the prime minister, hes a friend of mine, but I said, "Mr. Prime Minister, weve got to do something." For so many decades weve been losing tens of billions of dollars to China and Japan, and India, and name any country and we lost, but were not losing anymore.
And I said, "Listen, we got to do something." $68 billion in trade losses over the last four, five years a year. So were renegotiating, and I think youll be fair, I think youll be fair. And by the way, he started by saying that hes putting $40 billion into the United States for new car factories. Toyotas coming in with $14 billion, many, many companies are coming in. And theyre coming in, frankly to Michigan, theyre coming back, they want to be back to Ohio, to Pennsylvania, to North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida and whats the name of this special place?
Its called Wisconsin. So theyll be investing very shortly. And its started already 40 billion with a B, $40 billion, and itll be a lot more than that. The poverty rate for Wisconsin families has reached the lowest rate in 22 years. The unemployment rate for Wisconsin workers has reached historic lows, never been this low before ever, ever, ever, think of that.
Never been, historic low, and were now the No. 1 economy anywhere in the world and its not even close. By the way, Saturday night, is there any place thats more fun than a Trump rally? Can you imagine Sleepy Joe, Crazy Bernie, you look at the candidates, right? I think Pocahontas, shes finished, shes out, shes gone.
Now, when it was found that I had more Indian blood in me than she did. And then it was determined that I had none, but I still had more. That was the end of her 32 year scam on colleges. But can you imagine any of these people up here doing what Im doing? Thered be 200 people show up if they were President, if they werent President, nobody would show up. Is that right?
And I have to say, I was saying on the way over, they told me about bad weather, by the way, we may have to cancel tonight. I said, "Are you crazy?" Now can you imagine? I learned this morning, they thought you could have a big snowstorm, right? A big, big snowstorm. The people that get it wrong, the most are the weather forecasters and the political analysts.
Now they said theres a big, big storm, its going to be hitting Green Bay. we may have to cancel. I said, "like hell, were going to cancel. People are standing out." People are standing out 24 hours ago, 32 hours ago outside, who stood out there for 24 hours. Thank you. We love you. Thank you. Thank you.
And you know what, and youre rewarded with the best seats in the house, right? Thats right. Americas future has never been brighter yet the Democrats, those very friendly people in Washington have never been angrier than they are today. You see, somebody else with a very low level of energy were supposed to be standing here instead of me. They wouldnt be in this room.
I dont know theyve got some problems, I would say that. But you know, if you look, two weeks out in 2016, I was going to rallies we were doing five and six like this, and there were thousands of people outside just like there are right now. We had 69,000 people sign up to come in. What is this place on like ten or twelve or whatever, whatever it holds, we set the record.
I just was told by the owners, wheres the owner? Nice guy. I dont know what the hell it holds, but we just set the record. Wheres the owner? Is this your record? Thank you. Whoa, thank you. Its always dangerous. He said yes, it is sir. Its always dangerous. He goes, "No, sir." Im dead. They will take -- they will take that answer and that will be headline.
Thank you very much, you saved me. Now this is the record, we set records everywhere and its not me. Theres a movement like weve never seen in the history of our country. But the radical liberal democrats put all their hopes behind their collusion delusion, which has now been totally exposed to the world as a complete and total fraud, the greatest political hoax in American history, really has been.
So this witch hunt was never really just about me. It was always about stopping you, the millions and millions of freedom-loving citizens, who rose up on that incredible November day. Remember that day? November. And demanded a government that puts America first, OK? And were doing that with China, were doing that with India, were doing that with Japan, were doing it with a great new trade deal, that hopefully will get approved in the house.
I hope theyre going to approve it because its great for the farmers, everybody wants it, everybody loves it, but were all signed up and getting ready, I guess in 30 days to put it in, the USMCA, like the song YMCA, right, you remember? USMCA, thats with Mexico and Canada, its a great deal and its going to be very really good for manufacturers and really, really good for the farmers, thats what we want to do. Put a lot of pressure on your Congressmen and your Senators because they have to ratify it. You know they have to approve it and frankly, with what you have today, maybe theyd rather have us have a loss than do something thats good for the country, right?
Because NAFTA is one of the worst trade deals ever signed in the history of our country. You look at around Wisconsin, but you still see the scars, empty buildings. You up to New England, you go to Ohio, you go to different places, NAFTA was a disaster. And what we had, the one thing I wanted more than anything else, I want to make it almost impossible for a company to leave Wisconsin and leave other states and go to Mexico and go to other places, but go to Mexico, fire its workers, open a new plant in Mexico, hire other workers and sell the equipment into the United States.
I dont want that. And were not going to do it and if it makes it virtually not economically viable, thats what I want. So its gonna be great. I hope we can get Congress to get it approved quickly because its going to be fantastic for everybody in this room and especially manufacturers and farmers and people arent going to be firing people and moving their plants to other countries.
Remember that spell we were going through before I was a politician, remember? Can you believe Im a politician, I cant even. Politician. But you remember that spell where everybody was just leaving the country and going into Mexico, Canada, Mexico, Canada and Canada has been taking big advantage of your agricultural products, you know that.
You know Canada, we love the song, Oh, Canada, lets sing Oh, Canada, right? We love the song, but I came up here a year ago and I was with farmers and they were selling specialty milk. Now youre getting killed for years. Two hundred ninety seven percent tariff, that means you cant sell it, thats essentially putting up a barrier.
So all of those things are taken care of in this new deal and youre going to be opened up and said, oh, its gonna be good for everybody. Its gonna be good for everybody and if they didnt approve, I wouldve just put tariffs on the cars they would have done that. I didnt want to do that. I didnt want to do that.
But I said, "If thats not gonna happen, were putting tariffs on the cars, and frankly well make more money, but the farmers wouldnt be helped so much. But you watch the company grow and prosper as you start." Thats no good, right? So we like it and its good actually its good for Canada, its good for Mexico, its good for us. Weve got to get Congress to approve it. So put a lot of pressure on these geniuses we have over here.
Thats going to be a great trade deal. And were very close to making a deal with China, but who knows? I always say, who knows because who the hell knows? The deal is either going to be a great deal, it has to be. I told President Xi, hes a friend of mine. I said, listen, this cant be like a good deal for both.
This has to be a deal because we have been losing to China for many years, $500 billion a year. We have rebuilt China. Weve given them so much. Well think of it. Lets cash, you know, they can say its surplus, they can say its deficit, call it whatever it is, we will lose it cash. Were giving them five hundred, how the hell can you do it. And as Prime Minister Abe said to me today, he said nobodys ever talked to me this way from our country.
True. No, he said it friendly. He -- he said it friendly, hes a friend of mine, but he said nobody from this country, no president has ever said this. You know, nobody ever even talked about it. We lose 75 billion a year. Japan, as an example, sells us their cars, the cars come in, no tax. They dont take our cars.
Other than that its a very fair deal. So the cars come in. Essentially, its two and a half percent, but essentially its not tax. Our agriculture, they dont want it. We want to sell the agriculture. So they sell cars, we sell practically nothing. Thats how we have these massive imbalances with so many countries.
Now Chinas the big one, because with China its at least $375 billion year deficit. Think of it. three hundred, who the hell wants -- who made these deals? Its true. Honestly, in all fairness to Obama, this was him, but this was before Obama, a long time before Obama, this has been going on for a long time and all Im telling you is if we dont make a deal were going to do even better, OK. We have all the cards.
Dont forget, were the piggy bank that everybodys robbing. Were -- were the ones, were the piggy bank that everybody is stealing from and robbing and taking advantage of. But no matter how hard they try to stop us, they cant because our love for America will always be stronger than a corrupt thirst for power.
This -- I dont -- Ill tell you what, you know, people say, oh, hes wants to take over the country. He wants to extend, they dont believe Im leaving in six years. He wants to extend, he wants to have a presidency for life. These are sick people. I promise, at the end of six years, Ill be very happy but youre going to be left with the strongest country youve ever had.
I promise you. Youre right, USA, we love USA and thats right. And thats what this fight is all about. Were taking on the failed political establishment and restoring government of, by, and for the people, its the people, youre the people, you won the election. And if you look at whats happened with this scum thats leaving the very top of government, people that others use to say, oh, thats one that dirty, these were dirty cops, these were dirty players.
You take a look at whats going on. Theres 21 of them already and Im not even doing that, just leaving because they got caught like nobody ever got caught and then a truest sense of the word, what we are doing now is draining the swamp, thats true. I mean, were draining the swamp, but are we having a good time or what?
And look at all those beautiful red hats and some white ones, some white ones. Look at that. Those are a lot of red hats but you do have the white ones too, right? And you have the black ones too, you have a lot of them, you have a lot of different hats but let me just say, so we have to make a decision, you want to make it tonight.
So were doing great, the country is doing great. Were rebuilding our military. Were doing so many things, listen, so we have a decision to make. We may have the greatest theme in the history of politics called Make America Great Again. Its called MAGA country, MAGA country. Its called MAGA country. You know, I didnt hear that term until that third-rate actor in Chicago went out and he said, "I was beaten up by MAGA country.
Can you believe it?" Now thats a hate crime, right? He said he was beaten up by MAGA country, turned out to be a total lie, but think of it, MAGA, Make America Great Again. And by the way, I have to tell you, that case in Chicago is a disgrace to our nation. Disgrace. So -- so we have a decision to make.
Now, if this werent the greatest thing -- I really believe that its been said, but make America Great Again, Ronald Reagan used seldom Lets Make America Great, close but not the same. Lets, apostrophe s, you dont want the apostrophe, its too complicated, doesnt work, but Ronald Reagan was good. He said Lets Make, but he didnt use it and we use it a little bit.
We seriously use it, right? MAGA. And MAGA we got for free because my whole deal was Make America Great Again, all of a sudden people to say go and #MAGA, but we have a choice to make and a decisions to make. So very shortly were going to say, you see what we did with our vets, we have choice, were going to go over, we have accountability where you can find -- We have a lot of things, OK, weve done so much.
Our military is like going to be very soon in great shape. We took 100% of the caliphate in Syria. Everyone said, "Oh, youre never going to be." And by the way, by the way, and when some whack job, that picks up something over the internet goes out and blows up a store and people get killed, I understand that happens.
I understand because these people are sick, theyre demented. But we nevertheless, in terms of a war, we took 100%, but youre going to have these cells and theyre going to do damage. And its a shame and weve got to stop them. Weve done a great job, but weve got to be careful. Weve got to be good, these are sick, horrible human beings, if you even call them human beings.
So weve got to be careful. And you know what, when you see -- and I say this because we have a massive television rights. Do you ever see so many cameras? If somebody else were here, youd have about like none. Its like the Academy Awards used to be before they started hitting us and their ratings started falling like a rock.
True. So we have a choice tonight. Ready? So Make America Great Again. The problem is weve made America great. Were going to have a couple of things to do. We should have had health care, but one man decided to vote against us at the last moment. That was -- even though he campaigned for eight years repeal and replace, but thats OK, thats OK because were coming up, we win, were coming up with a great package of health care.
Were going to be the party of health care. Were coming up with a great package after the election. Weve got to take back the House. Weve got to win the Senate, weve got to win the presidency, were going to have bread, but we got rid of the individual mandate. Thats the big thing that the worst part of it. So heres what our decision is, do we use, for the new campaign, which will be starting soon, we have the great Sarah Huckabee over here. Sarah?
Thank you, Mr. President. Obviously, I thought it was going to be a little warmer here in Wisconsin, but its pretty hot in this room tonight. Thanks to -- Thanks for the amazing things youve done for our country last year. This night, I was on a slightly different event, not quite the best welcome. So this is an amazing honor.
Im so proud to work for the President. They said he couldnt win in 2016 and he did. They said that he couldnt make our economy better and its booming. They said he couldnt rebuild the military and hes done it.
They said there was collusion and there wasnt. Theyve questioned him at every step and hes proven them wrong every single time because of all of you. Thank you, Mr. President for leading our country. Thank you.
Oh, she doesnt get it. She doesnt get it. She doesnt understand me after all these years. Shes becoming too popular. Im jealous, Sarah, youre fired. She was wondering what was that all about. Shes been great and Dan Escovedo and Mike and the whole group and Madeline, everybody, what a group. What a group.
No, theyre great people and they really love this country and what theyve been through -- theyve been through a lot. Theyve been through a lot of phony stuff. The witch hunts, theyve been through a lot. So were delighted to be joined tonight by many incredible Wisconsin Republican leaders. A really great friend of mine, a man who is really the focus of whats going on in so much of Washington.
A very tough guy, very strong guy. I call him Wisconsin tough and I dont even know if you know it and I dont know if you appreciate it, but Im telling you hes really good. Ron Johnson. Thank you, Ron, a great job. Hes doing a big job now, I can tell you that hes working on some things that are very important.
And members of Congress, Bryan Steil. Bryan. Thank you, Bryan. Glenn Grothman. This guy, every time I introduce him, you know I love champions. I dont care if its in sports. I just like champions. So hes your tree-climbing champion, you know,  for five years, and thats not easy. Hed go up and come down.
He said the hard part was coming down because youd get killed if you missed. But for five years he was the champion, the world champion, five years. And hes with us tonight and Ill tell you, hes our champion, he fights so hard. Hes working on a reciprocal trade bill. So if somebody charges us a tariff of 100% or 50% or 25%, we say thank you very much.
Were going to have a reciprocal tax of 25 or 50 . What could be wrong with that? And hes leading the charge and hes got tremendous enthusiasm but hes a great guy, and hes a great champion. Sean and his wife, by the way, is better than him. Sean Duffy and another great friend of mine somebody thats been so effective, Mike Gallagher.
Mike, thank you again. Thank you. Thanks, Mike. And thanks also to Wisconsin house majority leader, Jim Steineke. Jim, thank you, great. Oh, Wisconsin. Senate President, Roger Roth, Senate Majority Leader, Scott Fitzgerald, thank you. These are great people, theyve done so much for us. So we have other leaders in the room, but we all know who they are.
Theyve been incredible. The Republican Party has been incredible after just the first two years time. America is winning again and America is respected again all over the world, no more games, all over the world. Since the election, weve created more than six million new jobs. Nobody would believe that.
If I said this, when I came here often, I came here often. Remember I came and they didnt like certain people that were with me, they booed the hell out of those people, but they like me, thats all that matters. If I would have said six million jobs were going to create, by this time two and a half years, can you believe how time flies?
Two and a half years already. I said the other night, I remember, first night, standing in my bedroom, I should say our bedroom, with our great first lady, I said, "Do you believe?" First night, I said, "Here we are, here we are, in the White House." And four years sounded so long away and now four years is coming up with two and a half years and no administration has done as much as we have in the first three years, every.
So -- Thank you. And by the way, yesterday was our first ladys birthday and people love her. Were about the same age, very close. But if I would have said that we would be a two and a half year creating six million jobs, people would have laughed 600,000 manufacturing jobs. Remember, President Obama said manufacturing jobs are gone.
You need a wand, a magic wand. We found the magic wand because theyre coming and theyre coming fast, and those are great jobs. Theres a great -- in the state of Wisconsin alone, we have created 23,000 brand new manufacturing and construction jobs, a record. And after years and years of declining wages, wages are rising for the first time in 21 years.
And you know whats nice, because I have a couple of friends here, theyre pretty wealthy people, very successful people, and you know what the hell with it. I dont care. I care about everybody. You know what I love? You know what I love? I love the fact that wages are rising fastest for the lowest income Americans, for single jobs.
You know when they say it hasnt trickled down, the most success percentage wise, the most successful are the lowest income Americans, theres something great about that. And people that are now able to go out, you know, we got Veterans Choice. We also have employment choice because you never had a chance yet to stay in a job that you hated or you couldnt get a job.
Now you can go out, you have seven alternatives, you get a job that you love and you get much higher salaries, its great. And youve heard me say this a hundred times, but I say it again and Ill keep saying it, "The unemployment rates for African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans and Asian-Americans have all reached their lowest levels in the history of our country." And remember this, if I make any mistakes, if Im off by just a little tiny bit, those people back there will be headlines.
So I have to be very careful, fake news. Theyre fake, they are fake, they are fakers. Ill tell you, you know what sucks, their ratings suck because people dont believe in them anymore. We have cut 30,000 pages of job-killing regulations from the federal register, thats an all time record, Its never happened before.
We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in our nations history. And you know something that is very important to me and very important to -- because of you, to keep family farms, ranches, and small businesses together in the family. When you pass on and go to heaven so you can look down at these great children and you dont like your children, dont listen to what Im going to say.
Probably a couple of you out there just say, you know, "I dont like a kid. Im not leaving them my damn farm, right? Anybody in here like that, raise your hand. No dont. But on the assumption that you love your kids, and you love your family, and you want to leave the farm, you remember what used to happen.
The estate tax was 45, 50, 55%. They had to go out and borrow money and sometimes the land is worth more than the income and they couldnt do it in the banks end up in the banks fight them, and thats not what they do for a living, the kids, and they lose the farm, they lose the ranch, they lose the small business, right?
Well, we have eliminated the unfair estate tax or death tax on all of those things. Zero. Zero, thats a good one. After decades of calamitous trade deals that stripped away our wealth, literally stripped away this countrys wealth, and our jobs and so many other things, took away our dignity when great companies would leave the United States for another country because of stupid taxes because of stupid regulations, because frankly, in some cases and the unions are going to work on this, I tell them, "Youve got to work on this, youve got to have a little flexibility because there are other choices." But now the choices are going to be other states.
Theyre going to be competition. But you know what, now, America fought back and all of these companies are coming back into our nation again, they want to be where the action is. They want to be where the action is. Theyre all coming back, all of them. And the era of economic surrender is over. Thats what we did.
We would like -- You remember that I used to do it when I was a civilian when I had no idea, I was going to be running for president, right? I had no idea. I used to say what the hell is going on in Michigan. They gave me an award six years, seven years ago. I had no idea. It was the man of the year in Michigan.
I went to Michigan, I said, do you people know whats happening? Youre losing all your car companies, theyre all leaving. Theyre going to Mexico, Canada, theyre leaving. Theyre going to China. You know what the hell is -- And this was before I was thinking about running for office. But Ive been saying it for 20 years and now weve stopped it. Those companies are all coming back straight.
When the Wisconsin timber industry was threatened, my administration took immediate action. We impose tariffs on dumped foreign goods and subsidized products and saved countless timber jobs all across this great state. And you know that, you know that John, big difference, right, they were losing -- you were losing a lot of jobs and they were taking the timber from other states and other countries, nope, not anymore, were doing good.
Before I took office, one of the greatest threats to the future of American manufacturing was the previous administrations Trans Pacific Partnership. You think NAFTA would have been bad? This would have made NAFTA look like a good deal. The TPP would have decimated U.S. manufacturing and gutted Americas auto industry, would have gutted the industry and they were dying to do this crazy deal.
I also ended up another one, you know, the great Paris Accord. How -- hows Paris doing lately? Howd Paris? Hows Paris doing? Send all the money to countries that the people never heard of and raised their taxes. I ended that one too. I thought I was going to take a lot of heat on that one. Saved a lot of money, saved a lot of jobs, saved a lot of businesses.
I said, you know when I end this Paris Accord, Im going to take heat. I didnt even take heat. My people understood it, it was a ripoff. It didnt allow us to use our wealth, would have stolen our jobs, but just take a look at whats happening to other places where theyre trying to do it. And we had something we would have never ever been able to adhere to the rules, they were so strict on us. You know, China can sign rule. Theyre not going to be sued by Greenpeace.
If Greenpeace goes to China, thats the end of Greenpeace, you never see them again. So China doesnt care if they violate Greenpeace and some of these other wonderful environmental groups. But the United States get sued and we adhere to these things. Its a little bit different. We would have lost our ass on that deal.
That would have been a terrible deal and thats why I was willing to take the heat, but there was no heat. Im still waiting. I guess at some point theyll bring it up. Theyll probably bring it up. Bernie Sanders will say, "What?" Ill say, "Take a look at Paris on a Saturday afternoon, Bernie, how they doing over there?
Good?" The yellow vests, how are they doing? I dont think so good, and theyre great friends of mine, but I dont think theyre doing so good. Thats why in one of my first acts as President, I withdrew the United States from the one sided job killing disaster known as TPP. TPP, what a mess. That was another one of these deals that was set up for the strict purpose of taking wealth out of the United States for the benefit of those other countries that were in the deal.
It was a one sided horror show. America will not be taken advantage of any longer. For years we gave foreign nations free and unfettered access to our economy while they constructed massive barriers to American exports. We give them, you come in, take us, Joe, its wonderful, we want to go there. No, we dont do that, we dont accept your product.
Oh, thats wonderful. As one example, we charge other countries, zero tariffs on foreign paper products, but when Wisconsin paper companies export it abroad, they sent their product abroad, China charged us big tariffs, India charged us big tariffs, Vietnam charge us massive tariffs. Unfair. Reciprocal trade act, John, reciprocal trade act.
Look at Harley Davidson. Look at Harley Davidson. I met with them three years ago, one of my first meetings, Harley Davidson. And I said to the people are very nice. They would tell me tough to do business in certain kind -- "How youre doing in India?" and they said, "Oh, we dont do any business." They werent even complaining because so many years.
So India charged a 100% tariff on a Harley Davidson, but when they send their motorcycles and they make em, to us. We charge them nothing. So I called up Prime Minister Modi, I said unfair, he cut it 50%. But he said thats not good enough because look, its 50% to nothing. And what were doing is changing all of that stuff, changing all of that rapidly, rapidly change.
And that goes for military protection also, that goes for military protection also where we are getting ripped. Were defending the world, were defending wealthy countries that can well afford to pay us, but theyve been getting this free military or at least massive partial subsidies for so many years.
Its almost like habit, its more habit than anything else. Nobody does anything about it, but we do. Theres one country we lose $5 billion. I wont say it. I dont want to embarrass anybody. The last thing I want to do is embarrass somebody, but they lose. We spend $5 billion a year defending them, right.
So I said to the generals, "How much do we spend?" they say, "Sir, we spent $5 billion." Very wealthy country. I said, "How much do they pay?" "Sir, they pay $500 million." I said, "You mean we lose four and a half billion dollars to defend it?" And theyre rich. So I called the country, right, I called the country.
So we lose four and a half billion for the privilege of defending a country. Thats very tough on us on trade and various other things. So I called, I said, "Listen, no good." Now that were in a state of shock because they never got a call like this in twenty five years. So I said, "Its no good. Were losing four and a half billion dollars.
Its no good. We cant do this anymore, this is crazy." And he got very upset. Angry. "This is not fair." I said, "Of course its fair." He said, "Well, well give you 500 million more because the budget you see had already been set, theres only a month left." So you know, I said, "You know what, I want more." We argued.
So they paid us more than 500 million for one phone call. It took me one call. Now Im not bragging, I hate the deal. For one call. Ron knows. First call theyve had in 35 years. I dont think theyve had a call. One-sided horrible deal. So I said, "Its OK. You know, I understand you have budget. You know you go through a budget next year, which now turns out to be in about two weeks.
I said were going to call you for much more. You got to pay, you got to pay, not fair. Were defending you and youre rich." You know, we can defend people. Theyre not rich and theyre being horribly treated and human rights and all the sudden thats different. These are rich countries, but think of it, one phone call, we pick up 500 million, thats not terrible, but now were going to pick up a lot more and we have that with many countries.
Look, Saudi Arabia, very rich country, we defend them. We subsidize Saudi Arabia. They have nothing but cash, right? We subsidize and they buy a lot from us, $450 billion they bought, you know you had people wanting to cut off Saudi Arabia, they bought $450 billion, I dont want to lose them. But the military, we subsidize Saudi Arabia, I called the king, I like the king.
I said, "King, were losing our ass defending you King and you have a lot of money." Thats true. And he said, "But why would you be calling me? Nobodys ever made such a call before." I said, Thats because they were stupid." So were working to deal with Saudi Arabia and so many so many things. So many things.
Ill tell you what, honestly, its easier than collecting a hundred and thirteen dollars and 57 cents from a tenant in a bad location in New York City and its safer too. Its easier, its true, its easier. OK, enough of that, but its true. So were getting ripped off on trade, were getting ripped off on military, by NATO, im all for NATO, but you know were paying for almost 100% of defending Europe and theyre killing us on trade.
The European Union, the EU is killing us. We lost $181 billion and were defending them for peanuts, it does -- does it -- does this make sense to you what Im saying? And in the meantime, your taxes go up, although they actually because of me have gone down, so I -- The International Trade Commission recently announced that under the USMCA American dairy exports to Canada are expected to surge by more than 50%, OK? We got to get the deal done.
Ron, you got to get that deal done. Youll get it done. Got to get it done. In my first 100 days in office. I traveled to this very state to sign an executive order, declaring that we will live by two simple rules, "Buy American and Hire American", right here in Wisconsin. But while we are unleashing Americas economic renewal, the new agenda of the Democrat Party is not the Democratic Party sounds, but they are to change the name its much better.
But why should I make their name sound good, right? The Democrat Party, radical left, they should change that too, call it, officially, The Radical Left Democrat Party would drive our nation into economic and financial ruin very quickly and they will take your guns away too, by the way. Nothing is more dangerous than the Democrats, crazy immigration agenda.
We want it solved. Were building the wall by the way. Were gonna have over 400 miles of wall built by the end of next year. You know, we can get money for anything. They were willing to give me money for every single thing, more money than I wanted. I said, I dont need that much money, give me money for the wall.
Were not giving you anything for the wall. You know why? Because politically they dont like it. So I went out and did it a different way and we have the money for the wall and were building the wall because their entire party has been taken over by far left radicals, who want to nullify and erase American borders.
They want open borders. They want open borders. They want people to pour in and they think thats going to be votes ultimately for them. These left wing extremists dont believe America has the right to enforce our immigration laws or decide who gets to enter and remain in our country, not going to be that way.
And think of Border Patrol, we apprehend a hundred thousand people a month. You know what that is? Democrats want to allow totally unlimited, uncontrolled, and unchecked migration all paid for by you, the American taxpayer. The Republican Party believes America has not only the right, but the absolute duty to control our borders and to enforce our laws.
And we believe the immigration system must put the needs of American workers and families first and people can come into our country. We need people to come in. We have so many companies coming. They need workers, but they have to come in legally and they have to come in through merit and we will always support the heroes of ICE and Border Patrol.
These are great heroes. Last month alone, 100,000 illegal immigrants arrived at our borders, placing a massive strain on communities, and schools, and hospitals, and public resources like nobodys ever seen before. Now were sending many of them to sanctuary cities, thank you very much. Theyre not too happy about it. Im proud to tell you that was actually my sick idea, by the way.
No. Hey, hey, what did they say? "We want them." I said, "Well give them to you. Thank you." They said, "We dont want them." Yet -- Well, wealthy liberals preach open borders, they live behind gates and guards, they send their families to the best doctors and private schools and while pushing immigration policies that drain the public services every day citizens depend on you and they depend on you, I depend on you because we can change our immigration laws.
I used to say in 45 minutes, its really 15 minutes, its so simple, but we need Democrats to vote on it, otherwise we cant change it. And they dont want because No. 1, they dont want to give us a victory, were going to take it anyway. Were going to take the victory, anyway. But they dont want to give us a victory on that issue.
And No. 2, they dont mind open borders and obviously open borders bring tremendous crime, they dont mind crime, if you can believe. The border crisis is also driving, and very strongly, the drug crisis, the biggest crisis we have, drugs, its people, and its drugs, and its traffickers, cartels, traffic, huge quantities of heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl across our southern border.
Drugs that claimed the lives of 80, 90, and maybe even 100,000 people a year and ruin the lives and the families of so many more. To confront the border crisis, I declared a national emergency. The good news is everybody agrees. Everybody agrees. Now, everybodys in. They look at those caravans -- We just had a caravan for 20,000 people and we told Mexico, I said, "Listen, if you let those people come through your country, were going to close the damn border.
Well close it. I dont care." They got to bring them back. They got to bring them back. Humanely, they got to bring them back. The flood of illegal migration is the direct consequence of Democrat backed policies that prevent border violators from being promptly returned home. Theyre allowed to stay in our country, Catch and Release.
Theyre allowed -- you catch them and then you have to release them. It is crazy. Congress has to fix these horrible immigration laws. We have to end human smuggling, stop human trafficking, shut down sanctuary cities, deport criminal aliens and replace visa lotteries and chain migration with immigration systems based on skill, and talent, and merit.
Ron Johnsons going to do it, Ron, congratulations. Stand up, Ron. Will you get that done for me, please. No get it done for Wisconsin, OK. Hell do it. Hell do it. On issue after issue, the Democrat Party has never been further outside the American mainstream. I mean its crazy whats going on with them.
Oh, do I look forward to running against them. They are pushing a $100 trillion government takeover of the US economy, known as the Green New Deal. Were going to rip down every single building in Manhattan and build a new building in its place. Theyve introduced a total federal takeover of U.S. health care that would abolish the private health insurance of 180 million Americans.
Many of you are in this room right now. And they are aggressively pushing extreme late-term abortion, allowing children to be ripped from their mothers womb right up until the moment of birth. And just this week, your Democrat governor, and by the way, by the way we have Scott Walker, hes here. Great governor, he did a great job, hes a great governor.
Hes got a big future. But your Democrat governor here in Wisconsin shockingly stated that he will veto legislation that protects Wisconsin babies born alive, born alive. The baby is born. The mother meets with the doctor. They take care of the baby, they wrap the baby beautifully. And then the doctor and the mother determine whether or not they will execute the baby.
I dont think so. Incredible. No, its incredible. Until this crazy man in Virginia said it, nobody even thought of that, right? Did anyone even think of that? Yeah, late term. But this is where the baby is actually born, it came out, its there, its wrapped and thats it. Who believes it? So to protect innocent life, I called on Congress to immediately pass legislation prohibiting the extreme late-term abortion abolished.
So Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, hoaxes, and delusions. The Republican Party is the party for all Americans, thats what it is, it really is, and common sense. Were a party of common sense. Were the party of the American worker, the American family, the American dream, were the party of the Second Amendment and its protection.
And every day we are making good on the motto Promises Made, Promises Kept. We are. Last month I signed an executive order -- Wheres Charlie? Where are you Charlie? Charlie? Where is he? What a great -- The man. Hes like 14 years old, I cant believe. How old Charlie? Twenty five. Can you believe? This guys unbelievable.
What a job. In honor of him, he worked so hard. And for those of you who think that youth is a  our side, just look at this audience tonight. Look at what Charlie has done, youd be amazed. I was watching the other night, the NFL draft, can you believe it? And it was the second-draft choice and he gets out most and he gets a real -- hes gonna be a great player from Ohio State and hes a MAGA fan.
He loves Trump, he loves MAGA. We got a lot of young people out there. You want to know the truth. I actually think we have more than they do, who knows? But I think we have more than they do. Hes going to have a great career. Last month, I signed an executive order to defend free speech on college campuses.
And if they dont give free speech they lose billions and billions of dollars and thats OK. Weve launched a historic initiative to reduce the price of prescription drugs. So Important. Last year prescription drug prices went down for the first time in 51 years. OK, its going up, up, up. And its down a lot more, going down.
That was a big deal, not by much, but you know its always gone up a lot, 18%, 6%, 9%. It went down and its going to start going down because all of these very complex things that were doing are starting to kick in. Were going to get them down. And maybe on that one, were going to work with the Democrats to be honest, because they want to get it down too and well see if we can put it all together.
But prescription drugs, look, its a rigged system, OK, if I told you how crazy it is, the Web, its the Web, you need 193 I.Q. to even understand this web of geniuses. They put this thing to lower drug prices. It has 19 effects here and 27, so we got it down and were getting it down further. We have the smartest people, the best people in that world working on it, and its happening.
And we might be able to get Democrat support. Were vastly expanding affordable alternatives to Obamacare. We repealed Obamacare is unfair and very unpopular individual mandate. Well, you had to pay a fortune for the privilege of not having health insurance, that was very bad. And well always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.
The Republicans are always going to protect pre-existing conditions. Were unleashing American energy and getting Washington bureaucrats off the backs of hunters, fishers, farmers, and everyone who enjoys our great outdoors. And weve committed to providing -- I think youll like this, and Ron, theres great Congressman that you have in this room are working hard on it, were very close, $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, and were building the new Soo Locks to protect jobs and commerce throughout the entire Midwest.
And Im pleased to report that earlier this Interlake Steamship Company announced plans to build the first Great Lakes freighter in 35 years, just north of here, in Sturgeon Bay. How did you know? 35 years. And that just means more jobs, more jobs, more jobs. To keep America safe, we are rebuilding Americas Mighty Mite.
We are rebuilding our military like never before in the history of our planet. That includes brand new combat ships from Marinette and more than 6,000 brand new armored vehicles from Oshkosh. And were boldly defending American interests. Just yesterday, I announced that my administration is unsigning the UN Arms Trade Treaty.
Were unsigning it, were pulling it back out of the United Nations. Were pulling it back out of Congress. All of you Second Amendment people, you know we know what it is. Well be very happy because we will never allow foreign bureaucrats to trample on Americas freedom. Were not going allow it. That was a President Obama disaster.
I also withdrew the United States from the absolutely horrible one-sided Iran nuclear deal. What an impact thats had. You know, when I first became President, the first week, I met with our great military people and we went over problems. One of the biggest problems was there and they were all over. Iran was all over the place they were over -- Ive never seen anything like it, 14 different conflict zones, Yemen, Syria, all over, and small battles.
I said, "So what do you do with these people?" I withdrew from that horrible deal where they paid $150 billion to Iran. They paid 1.8 billion in cash, probably for hostage. By the way, I got 22 hostages out. And the other day our great hostage negotiator made the statement that Trump is the greatest hostage negotiator this country has ever had.
So you know what, so I put it out, I put it out, why not, you know a lot of times if youre not going to brag about it, nobody else is, you might as well do it. True. So our ambassador made this happen and the press picked it up and they were going after me. Its not true, its not true, and then he called them and he said no, it is true.
And instead of saying its true, they stopped talking about it, fake news. I recognized Israels capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and it would have opened in 25 years. What I said to our great ambassador, David Friedman, one of the most successful lawyers in New York, who became ambassador to Israel.
I said, "David, they want to spend $1.1 billion, we could do it cheaper." They want to buy this piece of land in Jerusalem, top dollar. I said, "David, what can we do?" And he called me back, he said, "Sir, we have a piece of land thats much better, and on that piece of land, we have an old building. Were not using the building very much and we can renovate the building for $400,000 and well have a beautiful embassy and a better location, and we can have it done and so we can have it done in four months instead of 25 years." So heres your alternative, a building at a great location in four months for $400,000 or a building that will probably never get built, but lets say 20 years.
For 1.1 billion today, meaning $3, $4 billion in a lousy location. That wont be as good as what we built and its the first time Ive had ever done this. He said four hundred thousand. I said, "David, its too cheap." We have to make it. Its true. I said, "Make it $500,000." Its true. Its True. And its open.
We opened it like almost a year ago. And you know in New York I have a friend whos a very successful guy. Hes very proud of his office because he used to think, oh, Jerusalem stone. This is stone from Jerusalem, its one of the most expensive. He considers it a treasure. And every time I go in he says, oh, look at my beautiful stone, its from Jerusalem.
So were building a building in Jerusalem. I said, "David, do me a favor, buy Jerusalem stone. Youre right there." We got it so cheap, you wouldnt believe it. And the whole damn building is made practically of Jerusalem stone. Its true. Its beautiful. So we got it open it for months instead of 20 or 25 years.
And we saved at least 1.1 billion and its a great embassy right now. Its a great, great thing. Its great. And just weeks ago I announced that the United States will recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights. So thats been under consideration for 52 years. For 52 years, they told me theyve been studying it. Theyve had summits many, many meetings summits, people coming from all over the world talking about the Golan Heights and then theyd leave.
This is very important strategically for victory, heights. Youre up high, very important. Fifty-two years ago it started and I did it quickly, done, its all done. And we also recognize the legitimate governments of Venezuela and we strongly condemn the socialist brutality of the Maduro regime. And you see what socialism does, that was one of the wealthiest countries in the world, now its one of the poorest.
And to those who would try to impose socialism in our country, we see nothing but trouble. We see nothing but poverty. And we will say again tonight that America will never be a socialist country ever, never, never. Great. Wow this crowd has a lot of , this is a hell of a crowd. Saturday night for having a good time.
And you know why were having a good time because we are talking about a subject that we love, The United States of America, its very simple. Each of us in this arena is united by the same timeless values we believe in the American Constitution, and we believe in the rule of law, we believe in the dignity of work, and the sanctity of life.
We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe in religious liberty, the right to free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. We believe that children should be taught to love our country to honor our history and to always respect our great American flag and we believe in the words of our national Motto, In God We Trust.
These are the traditions, customs, and principles that unite people all across this beautiful state of Wisconsin. These are the values that bind us together as citizens, as patriots and as Americans, you joined our movement, the greatest movement in the history of our country because you rejected the failures and the betrayals of the past, you were betrayed.
You were betrayed by dishonest people. You were betrayed by stupid people. You served down a corrupt system that enriched itself at your expense. You protected your family, you defended your dignity, you recaptured your destiny, and you took back your country with that great election two and a half years ago.
You have always been loyal to this nation, now you finally have a president who is loyal to you. Every day between now and November 2020, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning. We are going to win. Remember, I used to tell you about winning, were winning.
We are respected again and I have to say, every leader, without fail, that comes to see me in the Oval Office, they all say congratulations. Its incredible whats happened to the United States, and Im not just talking about economically, which is tremendous. Weve created $12 trillion of value since the election, $12 trillion and our primary competitor, very big, powerful competitor has lost $17 trillion since our election.
They were catching us. If somebody else were in this position, they would have caught us already, theyre not catching us now, were way out in front. With every last ounce of hard and hope and sweat and soul we are going to make our stand. We are going to stand for liberty. We are going to stand for justice, we are going to stand for freedom and we are going to stand for the sacred rights given to us by the hand of Almighty God, we are one united movement, one united people and one United States of America.
