Donald Trump|The Washington Post: Interview with Donald Trump|August 2, 2016
I think really good. I think, uh —
Yeah, she got a bounce —
Well, she got the second. You have the advantage being the second convention. Its a big advantage being the second convention. But I feel good. You see the crowds. I mean, you dont see enthusiasm like that at a Hillary rally. People are falling asleep.
I thought it, yeah —
Yeah, I thought he was terrible. I thought his speech was terrible. Although hes not popular here. You know, this is Loudoun County. Loudoun Countys a big deal.
Is that what you think?
Hey, George! Come here. He just said whoever wins Loudoun wins the election. This is Loudoun.
You got 800 acres in Loudoun.
What about Fairfax? Same thing?
Shes been there for 30 years. Shes not going to change. Because you look at her donors. So you heard my speech?
How did you like it?
Im surprised people are talking about that.
You can do it either way.
Id want her to do what makes her happy. Id want her to do, Phil, what makes her happy.  Oh, did they have another one of these things go down? Its terrible that crash. Never liked that plane, structurally. I never thought that plane could —
She doesnt have to. She can do it either way. Some people would rather change and some people dont. Some people dont want to be forced to stay in a certain atmosphere. You can do both.
You can go through the process. You can also change. You can do both. Uh, you can do one, the other, or both. And I think it depends on the individual. You understand what I mean by that, right?
One, the other or both.
I think its gotta be up to the individual. I think it depends on the individual. It also depends on whats available. There may be a better alternative, then there may not. If theres not a better alternative, then you stay. But it could be theres a better alternative where youre taken care of better. But some people dont like staying in an atmosphere that was so hostile. You understand that?
They dont want to stay in an atmosphere thats so hostile.
But you can do one, you can do the other, or you can do both — meaning fight it out but be in a place thats more comfortable.
Correct.
Well, youre right. But if shes being harassed, would you want to stay in a place that shes being harassed in?
Absolutely. I think a lot of women wouldnt want to stay in a place where theyre being harassed.
Sure.
Well, I think — first of all —
Ive been very successful at negotiating debates because if you remember when we had to negotiate, I negotiated the proper timing and other things having to do with one of our other debates, okay? You —
That was me. I dont — I think three debates is the right number. I think that, uh, theyll be extremely well watched. There are those who will say it will be one of the highest-rated shows in television history, if not the highest.
No, theyre thinking — you know, Ive heard that a long time ago. Ive heard — when I first started, people were saying, "You know if it ends up being Trump against Clinton, its going to be the highest-rated debate in the history of television — or, show in the history of television. And they also said something else. Itll probably be the greatest voter turnout in the history of this country. That could very well be.
No because theyre not getting any . . . Id rather have head to head and right now theyre not getting any numbers. Shes doing better than he is, but right now in some polls shes actually not doing badly.
She doesnt get media coverage only because people perceive her as hurting Hillary Clinton. Im not sure that thats true.
People perceive her as hurting Clinton. I think shes doing very well. I dont think the numbers will be good enough for them to be in the debate.
I dont think they should be against the NFL because the NFL, those are two big games. I dont think it would be good for the NFL and I dont think it would be good for the debates.
There are plenty of dates that are dead nights that you could do. There are plenty evenings that are dead nights that you could have the debates in.
Well, Id want to play a role in that. Id want to have a fair moderator. I thought that Mitt Romney was treated very unfairly in the third debate .
I thought it was very unfair. I thought what happened to Mitt Romney was very unfair in the third debate. So, Id want to be. Id want to have somebody that I think could be fair. But I think three debates is good. I think it should be on a night where viewers are going to be able to watch. I wouldnt be surprised if Hillarys people had something to do with putting them on these evenings because thats what she did to Bernie Sanders. In all fairness, even if. September, she was always going to be the Democratic nominee so there was no negotiating even back then. You know this was before. . . . She was always expected to win the Democratic nomination so I wouldnt be surprised if they picked those evenings . . .
Yeah.
I dont like whats going on with voter ID.
Well, I think its ridiculous. I mean the voter ID situation has turned out to be a very unfair development. We may have people vote 10 times. Its inconceivable that you dont have to show identification in order to vote or that that the identification doesnt have to be somewhat foolproof.
I dont want to jump the gun. I dont want to talk about that. Im just saying that I wouldnt be surprised if the election . . . theres a lot of dirty pool played at the election, meaning the election is rigged. I would not be surprised. The voter ID, theyre fighting as hard as you can fight so that that they dont have to show voter ID. So, whats the purpose of that? How many times is a person going to vote during the day? If you dont have voter ID . . .
Multiple times. How about like 10 times. Why not? If you dont have voter ID, you can just keep voting and voting and voting.
Look, you never know. It started with me in Louisiana when I won Louisiana and I got fewer delegates than Ted Cruz.
I said, "Whoa! Whoa! What happens here?" And then I polled well in Colorado. and instead of voting, the bosses picked it. I said, "Whats going on here?" It took me a little while to get accustomed to the world of politics and then once I did we started running them off. But, who wouldve thought that was going to happen? I win a state, I get fewer votes. Then, I poll great in Colorado and all of a sudden . . . the voters arent going to choose. The bosses are going to choose. Anything is possible.
Just unfair media. Just the unfair media. Its purely and simply the unfair media.
They want the story to stay alive as long as possible.
People have to form their own opinion. Ive said everything I can say about it. I was viciously attacked from the stage, and I have a right to answer back. Ive said everything I could say. I was viciously attacked on the stage, and I have a right to answer back. Thats all I have to say about it.
I think frankly a lot of people agree with what Im saying. I was viciously attacked on the stage. All I did was respond to it. Pure and simple. It shouldve been a one-hour story and they make it a longer story.
I mean fine. So, I have no further thing to say other than I have a right to answer back.
Yeah. Its getting worse.
Its worse now because before I had 16 Republican, conservative people and the media had their favorite but they didnt particularly love anybody. Now its myself really against the media.
The media has a tremendous bias and has for a very long time against the Republican party and against somebody that happens to be conservative. They certainly have a tremendous bias against me. Everyones talking about it. Worldwide, theyre talking about the bias. When you look at the New York Times, when you look at The Washington Post, when you look at CNN. I mean CNN is all Trump all the time. Its called the Clinton News Network. Every story is Trump. All day long no matter what it is.
No, I get ratings. If I didnt get ratings, they wouldnt do it. They dont care about poll numbers, they only care about ratings. And, I get ratings but I dont do interviews for those people anymore. I dont watch CNN anymore. I dont do interviews with CNN anymore because its not worth it. Its very biased against me.
What I did today.
Social media, where Im head and shoulders above everybody else. Ive read now 22 million people on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. More than 22 million people. Nobody else is even close.
Pence has been great. You know Kaine, in Virginia where I am right now, you know he wasnt popular?
No but theyre very close, ever notice? Theyre very close elections. He even said they were very close. But his first move as governor of Virginia was to raise taxes by 4 billion dollars. He was not popular in Virginia. He wasnt popular.  Do you believe that Debbie Schultz, Wasserman Schultz, there she is. Shes very happy — look how happy she looks. She looks very happy.
Do you believe that Deborah Wasserman Schultz  she looks just as happy as Bernie did. Shes now hired by Clinton.
Payback.
I think shes gonna lose.
Are you hearing that? She went to a rally and they were booing her.
I didnt support him. I just thanked him for sending their love.
His opponent sent me a nice letter and I merely thanked him.
Nobody has asked me if I support Ryan.
Im giving it very serious consideration.
Yeah.
No. I never said Id support him. Im giving it very serious consideration.
Just so you understand, his opponent is a big fan of what Im saying. Big fan. His opponent whos running a very good campaign obviously. You may have heard. His opponent sent me a very scholarly and well thought out letter yesterday. All I did was say thank you very much for your very nice letter.
No. Im giving it very serious consideration to that whole situation.
To Ryan. To Paul.
Oh, I think so.
Lot of energy. We got a lot of energy. She certainly doesnt look presidential to me, Hillary. I dont think you get to look less presidential actually than Hillary.
I think its phenomenal.
Beyond good. Beyond good.
Oh, there look, can you believe that? Something, right?
Yeah, he did. He gave me the Purple Heart.
Amazing.
I did. I said you cant give me this. He said, "Mr. Trump you mean so much to me and my family." You know were doing very well with the veterans. I know you guys do not like to say that.
Look at this. Its all Trump all day long. Thats why their ratings are through the roof. Id hate to say, Philip, if I wasnt running, the television networks would be doing less than half the business.
In fact the Hillary convention which did very well but not nearly as well as mine, in all fairness, wouldve gotten one-third the ratings they got if I werent.
You want me to give you an exact quote on the Paul Ryan? You were asking.
Okay, youre asking me if Im supporting Paul Ryan?
Im not quite there yet.
Just not quite there yet.
Everybody wants my support. You know why? Cause I had more than 14 million people that voted for me. And nobody gives us credit. There were 17 people in the race. I got more votes than anybody in the history of Republican politics. By millions. Dont forget. How about if I had two people in the race? The number wouldve been twice as good. In other words, people with 2 million people. Because the Republican party increased.  That statements gotten a lot of play. I love that statement we wrote. So Im just not quite there yet.
I like Paul. I like Paul. But these are horrible times for our country. We need very strong leadership. We need very, very strong leadership. And Im just not quite there. Im not quite there yet.
Its up to the Senate. Up to the senators.
Well, I havent endorsed him, as you know.
I havent endorsed John McCain. And Ive never been there with John McCain because Ive always felt that he shouldve done a much better job for the vets. He has not done a good job for the vets and Ive always felt that he shouldve done a much better job for the vets. So Ive always had, Ive always had a difficult time with John for that reason. Because our vets are not being treated properly, theyre not being treated fairly.
I didnt say that, I said that about Ryan.
No, just, I have not endorsed John McCain. I have not endorsed John McCain.
Well I think it is because —
Look, in New Hampshire, Im at —
By a lot. New Hampshires one of my favorite places. You have a Kelly Ayotte, who doesnt want to talk about Trump, but Im beating her in the polls by a lot. You tell me. Are these people that should be representing us? Okay? You tell me. I dont know Kelly Ayotte. I know shes given me no support, zero support, and yet Im leading her in the polls. And Im doing very well in New Hampshire. We need loyal people in this country. We need fighters in this country. We dont need weak people. We have enough of them. We need fighters in this country. But Kelly Ayotte has given me zero support and Im doing great in New Hampshire. You know, as you saw, Im eight points up. Im leading Hillary Clinton by eight points.
Hillarys not a fighter.
Hillarys not a fighter.
And Hillarys not a change person. Shes gonna be a person to keep it just the way it is. Its gonna be four more years of  Obama.
I think Im going to to do great in Ohio, were going to do great in Pennsylvania, I think Im going to do great in Florida and I think Im going to do great in states that some people arent even thinking about. Because Im different than Republican candidates, than other Republican candidates. Ive got states that we can win that other Republican candidates wouldnt even stop over for dinner.
Well, Id rather not say. Because why should I highlight it? But we have some states that I think are very competitive in that no Republican has ever been competitive in. But Id rather not say what they are. Dont you agree with that? Id rather not say what they are.
No, not the secret state, no. But I have states, and you know this, I have states that no other Republican would do well in that I think Im gonna win. But I dont want to name those states.
Thats my attitude on the military. I dont like telling the enemy what Im doing. I think Ill do well in Michigan. Ive been talking about cars for five years. And how unfair it is that . . .
Yeah, Ive been talking about Michigan for five years. I won Michigan in a massive landslide. Remember, I beat Kasich. Remember, Kasich was gonna win Michigan? There was only one problem.
He had the wrong person he was running against, okay? Remember he was gonna win, you know, the whole belt around him? Except one problem: I won everything around him. And I did well in Ohio, too, by the way.
Its okay. Look, I got 13 million more votes than him. I had, including the islands, 42 states, including the islands, he had 1. I had 42, he had 1. I had 14 million, uh, 13 million votes more, I dont think so, but well see. You know hes taken it very hard, hes taken his loss very hard, and I can understand that. But he did sign a pledge. I mean thats a problem, for him. But look, hes gonna have to do what he has to do, but I think Im going to do very well in Ohio. The people of Ohio are not happy with what hes doing. I can tell you that. Theyre not happy with what hes doing. But the Republican Party more than any other thing has to have a victory, a presidential victory, for one thing, if nothing else: Supreme Court justices.
For anybody that fights me, like if John Kasich is fighting or if somebody else fights this, because, I mean, why would he fight? I had a massive victory over him and everyone else. Massive. I dont mean like I eked it out. I had a massive victory over Ted, it turned out. Remember Indiana was gonna be the change? I was gonna win New York, I was gonna win, then Indiana? But Indiana was a landslide. You gotta get over it. You know, at some point you gotta get over it. Otherwise were gonna have three or four new Supreme Court justices that are going to be a disaster for the Republican Party.
And I am gonna do a couple PACs, at the right time.
Im gonna do two or three $10 million PACs at the right time.
Anti-certain candidate PACs.
Im not saying against her, but Im gonna do anti-, Ill be active in politics through PACs at a later date.
No.
For future elections.
Republican or Democrat.
Yeah. That Ill do.
Maybe.
Maybe against Kasich.
Cruzs numbers have gone through the floor. Now that showed loyalty.
They had to bring his wife out. She was in danger.
From Texas.
Heres what I think: Im gonna win the election. Somebody said on television, somebody said last night on television: Nobody has gotten rich betting against Donald Trump. Thats in my lifetime. Thats not just for this election cycle. I went in, and people said: "Hes not gonna run." Ive gone through this with you.
By the way, those give you much more detail than tax returns, okay? Tax returns give you nothing. Tax returns give you no information.
No. Not until Im finished with my audit. You know, Mitt Romney was treated very unfairly. Mitt Romney didnt want to give his tax returns, because people dont understand returns that are complicated, and complex. And he didnt give it. He fought it, fought it, fought it, all the way into September. A month before the election, he gave his tax returns. And they picked out two items that were absolutely perfect. He did nothing wrong. And his returns are very much smaller than my returns. You saw the picture of me with my returns? Mitt had perfect returns, they did absolutely nothing wrong, and they took a couple of lines made him look bad.
He did nothing wrong. They took a couple of lines that were absolutely perfect and they made him look bad. Now, my returns are four feet tall.
