Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Cape Girardeau, Missouri|November 5, 2018
Thank you very much, Missouri. You are incredible, incredible people. Wow. And we never said to Rush hes got eight minutes. Rush can have two hours, three hours. Theres nobody like him. There never has been anybody like him. I was speaking to Sean Hannity backstage. Do we love Sean, by the way? And Sean said, there is nobody like this man.
And hes a real good guy. Although hes tough, hes tough. But, boy, Ill tell you what, when hes on your side, theres nobody you want better. I mean, its really great. Its really great when hes with you. The biggest of all time at what he does. I also want to thank my good friend, Lee Greenwood. How about Lee?
So we were in Tennessee last night, and Lee was there, and I get that. But this was a surprise tonight. But, you know, that song is one of the great songs, but when hes singing to you like direct, we really like that song, right? We really -- and we like Lee Greenwood, and hes been with us from the beginning.
He has been with us absolutely from the beginning. And while were talking about incredible people, lets get it over with, right? So I have a few people that are right out here, and theyre very special. Theyve done an incredible job for us. Theyve been with us from the beginning, also. Im going to start by saying Sean Hannity, come on up. Sean Hannity.
By the way, all those people in the back are fake news. Mr. President, I did an opening monologue today, and I had no idea you were going to invite me up here. And the one thing that has made and defined your presidency more than anything else: Promises made, promises kept. Four-and-a-half million new American jobs, 4.3 million Americans off food stamps, 4 million Americans out of poverty.
And were not dropping cash loads and cargo planes of cash to Iranian mullahs that chant death to America. Mr. President, thank you.
And we dont mean at all to insult -- look at the size of the media back there. Thats a lot of people. And you do have, honestly, I see some -- you have some very fine people back there. But you have some that arent so fine. But we dont -- we dont want to insult, but I have to do this, also, because theres a woman on Saturday night that treats us very, very well.
And she does it with love and with passion for the country, not for me. Its not a passion for me. Its a passion for the country. And I really believe its a passion for you, because weve -- weve together formed the single greatest political movement in the history of our country. She understands that.
And shes understood it from day one, and she did this little show, and she was just going to do it, a little fun, and then it became this tremendous success, and she has got viewership like you wouldnt believe, and she speaks from the heart. Her opening monologue is always exciting. Its always exciting, and its always brilliant, and shes my friend, and shes your friend. Justice Jeanine.
Thank you. Do you like the fact that we are now in the longest, strongest economic growth streak in American history? Do you like the fact that this man is the tip of the spear, who goes out there every day and fights for us? If you like the America that he is making now, youve got to make sure you get out there tomorrow, if you havent voted yet.
Everyone you know, your grandmother, your cousin, your kids, even your next-door neighbor if you dont like them, get them out to vote for Donald Trump and all -- not the -- all the people who are running for the Republican Party.
Weve got to have them be very careful with those stairs, because she just did a great job, but we dont want her to fall going down those stairs, because they will be decimated. Jeanine has been a great, great friend to all of us. You know that. Also, we have some terrific people that have been with us, and theyve worked for us, and theyve taken the slings, the arrows, and they are so strong, so tough, so smart.
I just want to introduce somebody, and I said today twice, in Ohio, where we had a crowd like this, and outside there were thousands and thousands of people. And then we went to Indiana, where we had a crowd like this, and there were thousands and thousands of people outside. And I just want to say, theres something happening out there, folks.
Theres something happening. Now, you dont know -- and Im not on the ticket, although they want to put me on the ticket -- I will say this, if we dont do so well tomorrow, they will put me on the ticket. If we do great tomorrow, they will say he had nothing to do with it, he was not on the ticket. But thats OK. Were all getting used to each other.
Does that look like the Academy Awards back there? Look how many people there are. Look how many, the Academy Awards. Thats the Academy Awards. And you know, the bad thing, we can have these massive crowds, and this is my third one today this way. You know, thats not supposed to happen. Thats not. Somebody said its not humanly possible.
I said, I guess it is. But, you know, these events, they say you do one a month and then you recover, and then you do another. But you dont do three in one day. These have been incredible. And yesterday, we were in Georgia. We had the biggest crowd youve ever seen, working for the man who hopefully will become the next governor of Georgia.
Hes a great, great person, and I think hes going to do very well. They had a lot of celebrities going out there, but the celebrities drew flies. They just drew flies. They didnt have much of a draw. But hes going to be fantastic. But I want to introduce a person who, from day one, she was just smart.
Even though shes my daughter... She was just smart. Nah, dont worry. Im smart, also. And were smart. Hey, you know, while Im at it, dont you love it when they talk about the elites, right? The elites. Come on, honey. When they talk about the elites, I want to tell you, this is the elites. Ivanka, say a few words. Come on, honey.
Hi, Missouri. We love you. We love you. So much love. And we are fighting for you every single day. This president, this administration is fighting so that all Americans can achieve the American dream, and thats whats happening. The economy is roaring. And tomorrow is about ensuring that it stays that way.
So, really, thank you for being out here. Thank you for your passion. Thank you for your energy. Its just an amazing honor. We love you.
Be careful with those stairs, everybody. Be careful with those stairs. You know, they talk about the elites. The elites. Well, I know all the elites. Theyre not very smart in many cases. They have a lot of hatred in their heart. I dont know about you, but many of you went to better schools than they did.
We did better in the schools than they did. We have better houses, homes, boats. We do better than they do. We work harder than they do. We make more money than they do. Why are they called the elites? But lets let them be called the elites, because you, we are the super elites. We are the super elites.
We are doing well. We are doing well. Theres some people out there. But you know, I said just before Sean had me on, and I said, you know whats going to bring us together? This incredible success. I think its going to eventually -- we have to get the election over with, but I think at some point, theyre going to say, OK, its time.
We give in. We give in. Lets all get together. At some point, at some point, thats going to happen. But being a negotiator, I have to follow it up with this. And if it doesnt, thats OK, too. So, three people that have helped us so incredibly, very special women that have been unbelievable from day one.
Id like to bring up Sarah Huckabee Sanders... Thats pretty good. Shes fantastic. Thats beautiful. Beautiful. Wow, thats pretty good. How about letting her do the first part of my speech? Good idea? Also, Kellyanne Conway. And a woman who was involved very early on, we had the great state of Michigan.
It hadnt been won in many, many years by a Republican. It was said to be unwinnable. I was told, dont even contend for Michigan. And then I met a woman who had a lot of drive and a lot of energy, and she said, Id love to run Michigan. I said, I heard it was unattainable. She said they love you in Michigan and they want their car industry back, because their industry was taken to Mexico and Canada and other places, and you dont like that.
And you dont like that. No, I dont. And by the way, its all coming back, folks. You see whats happening. Its all coming back. Its all coming back. And she worked so hard. And that beautiful evening in November, when they started counting the ballots, and we won Florida, and we won South Carolina, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania.
And then -- and we did win Indiana, thats for sure. And we won Ohio, remember? Remember, they used to say, you cannot win unless you win the great state of Ohio. We won Ohio very easily. And Bob Paduchik, who ran that campaign, is here. We love Ohio. Those are incredible people. But what happened was a surprise, because in the midst of all, they said, and Donald Trump has just won the state of -- before Michigan -- Wisconsin.
And every go, whoa, whoa! Whoa! Right? They said, whoa, whats this? Whats this? That one was -- I mean, not -- where did that come from? But weve done a great job, and theyre great people. And we opened it up for the dairy farmers in Wisconsin. We opened up Canada with our new deal for the first time.
They like us. Great deal. But then they said -- and were running a string -- and this is when they started getting extremely nervous. And a very nice guy named John King for CNN, you know, he has the board, the red board, and his hand is like starting to shake... ... because that board had so much red on it, theyve never seen anything like it. They didnt know what was happening.
Right? That board was red. That board was red. I remember when North Carolina, great state, incredible people, incredible, and the opponent, lets be nice, the opponent said very strongly in the -- that that is their firewall, they cannot lose that. They have it made. Except for one problem, Donald Trump won the state of North Carolina.
Won the state. But then out of the blue, out of the blue, they said, oh, oh, oh, you know, there were some crying, you know? These people are very fair. Theyre crying, OK? And theyre not crying out of happiness, that I could understand. Theyre crying out of despair. But then out of the blue, they were saying to themselves, weve got a problem here, because Donald Trump has just won the great state of Michigan.
And that was the ballgame, folks. That was the ballgame. Wisconsin, Michigan, it was -- it was in a great -- was that one of the greatest evenings of all time? And, you know, that was every network, every cable station, everything, everybody, look at them all back there, oh, theyre loving this, theyre loving this.
Every once in a while -- dont worry, Im not going to mention CNNs name -- but were not going to watch it. I wont mention NBC or ABC or CBS. Not going to mention. Im not. Im not going to mention that you treat us very unfairly. But I think theyre getting tired of it. You know why? Because we keep winning.
Its driving them crazy. Its driving them crazy.  So, anyway, youre right. USA, nothing like it. Made in the USA. Thats happening. Theyre all moving back, folks. Those companies are all moving back. So this young woman was incredible. And I said, you know, that woman that did such a good job for all of us in Michigan, I think we have to move her to Washington, D.C., to run the Republican National Committee.
And shes been -- shes been there ever since, and she has done a fantastic job, Ronna McDaniel. Come up, Ronna. And she actually is very good on television, too. Just say a couple of quick...
You guys already heard it. The president was in Michigan the night before we won in 2016. Hes in Missouri tonight. You need to deliver a win.
Thank you, folks. Thats great. Great job. Great job. What a group. I always said that women are smarter than men. Sorry, men. But we understand it, right? Men, do we understand it? No, these are great people. Theyre great people. And theyre our friends, and they work hard for us. And they could be doing other things, but they love what theyre doing.
They love what were accomplishing. And tomorrow, the people of Missouri are going to send Josh Hawley to the United States Senate to keep Americas economic boom going full speed ahead. In less than two years time, we have accomplished more than anyone could have ever imagined. We are so far ahead of schedule.
If I ever said what weve done along the campaign trail, they would have never, ever let it happen. They would have gone out and said, hes exaggerating. Except for one problem. Weve done far more than we ever said we could do. And Americas extraordinary comeback is the envy of the entire world. The whole world is talking about -- were the hottest nation in the world.
Were the hottest. And I have great respect for China and President Xi. Hes a friend of mine, although he doesnt like me as much lately, but thats OK. He will be back. But -- he said hell have to get over it. Only a person from Missouri could say that. Who said that? No, were doing well, and were doing well with everything, frankly.
But I will say, we have to get out tomorrow, and we have to elect a Republican Congress. We have to do it. Weve got to stop cryin Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi from erasing everything that weve gained. Our economy is setting records on a daily basis. There is no place I would rather be for the last stop of this campaign than right here in Missouri with the incredible men and women who make our country run.
This is my last stop.  Thank you. Thank you. You know, were changing the slogan. Its make America great again, greatest slogan of all time. Greatest slogan. But you know what? We cant use it for the second four, right? Because its like theyd say, well, I thought you were going to make it great?
What are you doing using it again? So our new slogan will be in another year keep America great. Keep America great. Thats true. Because the wrong people follow us in office, it could all be gone. All of those 401s, where your wife or your husband thinks youre a super genius, a great financial genius, because youre up 51 percent, youre up 62 percent, youre up 42 percent.
My husbands a genius, but for their whole marriage of 20 years, she was screaming at him, cursing at him, saying you dont know what the hell youre doing. Now, all of a sudden, hes a genius. Youre looking very good. Youre looking very good. But I have to say, so this is my last stop, right? I told you, left Ohio, left Georgia yesterday, left all these great states, Montana, big sky, big sky.
We left all of these great states. We covered a lot of territory. My last stop is here. I think for one reason, for one reason, and I have to say it, because this is the home of Rush Limbaugh. And David Limbaugh, David, thank you, David. Thank you, David. Great lawyer. I hear David is a great lawyer, right, David?
David told me. No, but Sean told me. Everybody tells me. Thank you, David. But this is the home of Rush, and what he did today was fantastic. Because he doesnt do that. He doesnt do that. This is his home. He loves Missouri. And its very important. Also, this is the place that Josh is running. Josh is a young, incredible guy with tremendous talent.
He will serve this country so well. He will represent Missouri so well. And hes actually leading. Hes actually leading. Hes actually leading. For decades, Washington only served the powerful and the well-connected. Those days are over. Together, we are the voice for every citizen who has ever been overlooked, abandoned, neglected, ignored.
You remember the words, the deplorables. Oh, that was a good speech. I dont know. Did the speechwriter for the deplorables speech, did that person get fired immediately or the following week? Wow, did he give us a great gift. But the deplorables are the greatest people on Earth. Theyre the smartest. Is there a doctor in the house, please?
Doctor? Doctor, please, thank you. Thank you very much. Take your time. Doctor, take your time. We have plenty of time, right? Thank you, Doctor. Take your time, Doctor. Thank you. Thats fine. Take your time. Dont rush it. Thats one of our great people right there. Take your time. Say a little prayer.
Go ahead. Say a little prayer. Thats good. Thats good. Say a little prayer. Take your time. Take your time. Relax. Take your time. Thank you. Weve got plenty of time, right?  That was really something. I want to just thank everybody for the way you behaved. That was beautiful.
And that at the end was beautiful. Amazing grace. Thank you very much. That was beautiful. Hopefully shell be OK. Hopefully shell be ok. I want to just say that tomorrows so important. Josh Hawley is an amazing fighter. We need to keep this jobs boom going. We need to keep our country going the way it is. You saw what was announced on Friday.
Friday was incredible. It was incredible. The jobs numbers, last month alone, we added 250,000 brand-new jobs. The unemployment rate is at its lowest level in more than 50 years. Weve created 4.5 million new jobs since Election Day, and we have lifted 4.3 million Americans off of food stamps. African American, Hispanic American, and Asian American unemployment have all reached their lowest levels in history.
We have brought African American and Hispanic American poverty levels to their lowest point ever recorded. There has never been a better time for the American worker. We passed a massive tax cut for Missouri workers and for the United States, and we will soon follow it up with another 10 percent tax cut for the middle class.
And to protect your rights and your freedoms, we overcame the Democrat smear campaign and confirmed the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And you saw what happened on Friday, also. We had great jobs numbers, but we also had something else. The accuser of Brett Kavanaugh, a man who is a fine man, the accuser admitted she never met him, she never saw him, he never touched her, talked to her, he had nothing to do with her, she made up the story, it was false accusations, it was a scam, it was fake, it was all fake.
And you know, when that came about, people were calling for him to immediately get out. Think of that. Think if he would have done that, and then we found out that it was all false accusations. False statements. A made-up story. And lets look at the rest of them, please. Lets look at the rest of them. Because that man suffered.
You know, when I decided it was going to be him, and it was early, because honestly for 10 years Ive been hearing about a man named Judge Brett Kavanaugh -- Ive been hearing about him for a long time, and they all said hes fantastic, intellectually, hes a great scholar, and he will someday be on the Supreme Court.
Now, that was 10 years ago. Can you believe it? And little did I think Id be the one appointing him. But Ill never forget, Rush. Ill never forget this, Rush. I brought him to the White House. And I said, Judge, then judge, now justice. I said, Judge Kavanaugh, I want to congratulate you. Im choosing you to serve on the United States Supreme Court.
And he said, this is the greatest honor of my life. I would like to thank you, Mr. President. And I said, Judge, by the way, just so you know, this is going to go so quick, this is going to be so easy. You have led such an incredible, exemplary life. Its going to go so fast. No problem. And then it began.
And then it began. And he hung in there, and I hung in there, too, by the way. I hung in there, too. False accusations. False accusations. They want to ruin a man or a woman. Ruin a man. And it was headed up all by the Democrats, all by the Democrats, right? All by the Democrats. Dianne Feinstein, with did you leak.
Our great, great, brave, brave soldier from Vietnam, except he never saw Vietnam. Da Nang Dick, you know, Da Nang. Hes from Da Nang. We charged up the hill, soldiers were falling left and right, but I was protecting them, I was there. Except he never saw Vietnam. And then he gets up and he says, we demand honesty.
We demand the truth. Can you believe this? This can only happen to us. This can only happen to us. In any event, we energized the Republican Party with that. The Democrats overplayed their hand, just as they overplayed their hand with a lot of things. They overplayed their -- like the Russia nonsense. Russia.
Russia did it. It was Russia. They used it as an excuse by the Democrats for losing an election that they should have won because they have a big advantage in the Electoral College. Remember they used to say, there is no way for Donald Trump to get 270. And they were right. We got to 306. They were right.
We got 306. They used that as an excuse. And they always overplay their hand. Got some bad people. And you have some good people over there, too, I have to be honest, but you got some bad people. The contrast in this election could not be more clear. Democrats produce mobs. Thats whats happened. Republicans produce jobs.
We are proudly joined by many terrific Missouri Republicans, including tonight your great governor, done a fantastic job, Mike Parson. Mike? And Mrs. Parson. Great job. Great job. Thank you. Thank you. Great job, Mike. And members of Congress, one of them stopped Washington about three weeks ago when he started doing his little auction deal, right?
Billy. Does anybody know Billy Long? I have never heard an auctioneer so good. Ive never an auctioneer as good. But hes a great congressman, more importantly. And he loves the people of this state. And he loves your state. Billy Long, Congressman. Billy. Great guy. Did everybody see that, a month ago? He started doing the auction thing.
Everybody -- and these were hardened political people. Theyve heard it all. And they just stopped in their tracks. They said, what the hell is that? And it was our friend, Billy. It was amazing. And another congressman from Missouri, always there for us, just like Billy, somebody thats been there for the tax cuts, and there for regulation, and there for right to try, right to try.
You know what right to try is, big thing, big deal. Its a big deal. And he was there, along with some really great people in the Republican Party to take care of our vets, to give them choice for the first time in 44 years. Theyve been trying for 44 years. Congressman Jason Smith, thank you, Jason. If you dont want to be saying the words "Speaker of the House Pelosi" for the next two years... ... get out and vote for Billy and Jason.
They dont really need your vote, but get out and do it anyway because, wow, that would be a story. We dont want to be complacent. We dont want to be -- they are great people, so get out and vote for your congressmen and women. Tomorrow, the people of Missouri are going to elect a truly outstanding new senator.
Josh Hawley will be a tireless champion for the great people of Missouri. He is great on jobs. He is great on cutting taxes. And there is nobody tougher on crime. He shares your values, and he will always support our military, our vets, and our great law enforcement. Josh is running against an extreme liberal Democrat named Claire McCaskill.
She got lucky the last time. She got lucky the last time. She was way down the last time, and somebody running, it didnt look -- it didnt look too good. She got a little bit -- she got a pass. Lets put it that way. She got a pass. It was a sad thing that happened. That whole thing was a sad thing in many ways.
Anyway, she got in. And now Josh is actually up slightly in the polls. Just came out. But she was going down, and then she said, the Democrats are crazy, and I said, thats genius for getting -- I give her credit for that. Shes taking a lot of heat, but shell patch it up over one lunch a day after the election, if she wins.
But I hope thats not going to -- if she doesnt win, then shes going to have long-term trouble. But she said the Democrats are crazy, and then she said, I agree with our president on border security. I agree. All of a sudden, she agrees with me. Im in office for almost two years. All of a sudden shes agreeing.
Look, folks. Just so you understand, so the election is tomorrow, Tuesday. On Wednesday, she will no longer agree with me on border security. No longer. No longer. A vote for Claire McCaskill is a vote for Chuck Schumer, Nancy Pelosi, and the legendary Maxine Waters. And more important, its a vote for their horrible socialist agenda.
Claire McCaskill will be a disaster for jobs, for your families, for your state. And again, on Wednesday, she will no longer remember anything she said, and she will never, ever vote for us on the big things where we need her vote, ever. Just like she didnt vote for Judge Kavanaugh, shes not going to vote for us, and thats the way it is. Its very simple.
And while I very much appreciate her great support out of nowhere along the border, it disappears on Wednesday morning. Claire voted against middle-class tax cuts. She voted against Neil Gorsuch. And Claire joined the Democrat mob in voting against Justice Brett Kavanaugh. Claire McCaskill has one of the most open-border voting records in all of Congress.
Claire McCaskill voted no on Kates law, and she voted no on enhanced vetting for refugees. Lets just let them in. Let them in. Let them in. And Claire voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities. She would rather protect criminal aliens than American citizens, which is why she needs to be voted out of office tomorrow, please.
If you want jobs, and if you want safety, you have only one choice. A young, talented man whos going to -- I tell you, I really believe this, hes going to go down as one of our great senators, Josh Hawley. Josh, come on up, Josh.
Wow. Thank you. Thank you very much. Isnt it incredible to have President Donald Trump in southeast Missouri? You know, Senator Claire McCaskill said that she could give up a few votes in the Bootheel, did you hear that? Ill bet she regrets it now. President Trump won the state of Missouri by 20 points.
How about that? Twenty points. And he has delivered for this state. But, you know, you would think -- you would think with a record like the presidents that the career politicians in Washington, D.C., would get the message. But Claire McCaskill sure hasnt. She hasnt heard a word you said in 2016. President Trump has been fighting to put pro-Constitution, pro-America judges on the bench like Brett Kavanaugh.
But Claire McCaskill voted no. President Trump is securing our border, but Claire McCaskill -- Claire McCaskill is sponsoring the most radical open borders bill in the history of the United States Congress. She voted for amnesty. She voted for amnesty. She has called the border wall embarrassing. Thats her word.
And shes mocked the president for wanting to have it. Does that represent us? I dont think so. President Trump lowered your taxes, but Claire McCaskill voted no. Shes voted to raise your taxes over 200 times and President Trump has fought to roll back regulations on our family farms and family businesses, like the waters of the United States rule.
Its gone because of him. But Claire McCaskill -- Claire McCaskill voted for every far-left environmentalist regulation the Obama administration could dream up. She even voted to keep the waters of the United States rule. But, you know, I have to say, I mean, maybe Senator McCaskills record shouldnt be such a surprise, because she did say that she thought the reason President Trump got elected was because of the Russians.
Thats what she said. She told a journalist that, because of the Russians. What she doesnt realize is, President Trump got elected because of the Missourians. And were going to re-elect him. You know, the more -- thats right.  You know, the more I listen to Claire McCaskill, the more she reminds me of another career politician that President Trump defeated in 2016. The person -- the person that Claire McCaskill thought should be president.
Do you know who Im talking about, Hillary Rodham Clinton? Yeah, yeah. Amazing. Amazing.  Senator McCaskill has spent a lifetime in politics, just like Hillary. Senator McCaskill has made a boatload in federal money, just like Hillary. Senator McCaskill voted for amnesty, just like Hillary.
Senator McCaskill is for open borders, just like Hillary. Senator McCaskill is for activist liberal judges, just like Hillary. Senator McCaskill even has a phony foundation that makes millions of dollars a year and pays nothing in taxes, just like Hillary. Tell you what. Senator McCaskill -- Senator McCaskill said that we all ought to call Hillary Madam President.
Well, tomorrow, tomorrow, were going to call Senator McCaskill fired. Thank you very much. God bless you.
Thats great. So, everybody, get out and vote for Josh Hawley tomorrow. So important. He will be one of the leaders of the Senate in a short period of time. Hes a very special person. And he will never, ever let you down. I know that about him. If Democrats gain power on Tuesday, one of their very first projects will be a socialist takeover of American health care.
You know whats happening. And your taxes are going to triple, maybe quadruple. Youre not going to be happy. I know you well. The Democrat plan would obliterate Obamacare. It will also -- which is good -- but leave the bad parts behind. It will destroy Medicare. And by the way, did you notice we got rid of the individual mandate in Obamacare, right?
Nobody talks about that. Nobody talks about that. Nobody talks about the individual mandate, most unpopular thing, and its going to be gone. Soon, Obamacare will be gone. We actually had it. We missed one vote, one vote, one vote. That was a little bit of a surprise to us at 2 oclock in the morning. One vote.
But we didnt get any Democrat votes. If Claire McCaskill, we would have repealed it and replaced it. But essentially, its being obliterated anyway, and its going to be -- youre going to have great, great advantages with health care when you see what were doing. We want to -- watch, if they win, they will eliminate Medicare Advantage for more than 411,000 Missouri seniors.
Republicans will protect Medicare for our great seniors, who earned it, and who, by the way, have paid for it. You know that, right? You know that. And Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions, always. We are protecting patients. The Democrats plan to destroy health care also includes raiding Medicare to fund benefits for illegal immigrants.
Somehow that doesnt work well in Missouri. Its commonsense people, by the way. Common -- you know its all about common sense. You know that. They say, are you a conservative? I say, yeah, Im conservative, but you know what I really -- its common sense. Most of its all commonsense, folks. Its common sense.
You know what its called? Its called we have to do whats right. We have to have borders. Without borders, we dont have a country. We have to do whats right. We cant let foreign nations take advantage of -- you know, theyve been taken -- for years and years, taking advantage of us. We cant allow it to happen.
Its not going to happen anymore. We cant protect rich nations, really, really successful rich nations. We protect them, and they dont pay us for the protection, or they pay us a small fraction. Its not fair. And I tell them, sorry, its not fair, and were working it out. Youre talking about a lot of money.
Youre talking about a lot of money. As we speak, Democrats are openly encouraging millions of illegal aliens to break our laws and violate our borders. And they want to sign them up for free welfare, free health care, free education, and most importantly, they want to give them the right to vote. I cant imagine why.
Democrats immigration policies are extreme, dangerous, reckless, and insane. They support catch-and-release. They want to free criminal aliens. They want no protections for American workers and taxpayers. And they want totally open borders, which means crime will pour into our country. Illegal immigration costs our country more than $100 billion every year, and thats more than the budgets of Missouri, Indiana, and Wisconsin combined.
I mention those places, you know why? Because we have very important races in those places, and we have all these Academy Award-type cameras going back there. We want to win in those places, too. A nation ought to take care of its own citizens first. Nearly 100 percent of the heroin in the United States enters through the southern border, along with roughly 90 percent of cocaine, the majority of meth, and a substantial portion of deadly fentanyl.
These drugs kill more than 70,000 Americans a year and destroy the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. Last year alone, our brave ICE officers arrested more than 127,000 illegal aliens. And they had criminal records, including those charged or convicted of approximately 48,000 assaults, 12,000 sex crimes, and 1,800 homicides.
But despite that, the Democrats want to abolish ICE. They want to abolish ICE. They want America to be a giant sanctuary city for gang members and MS-13 killers. Republicans believe America should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans, not criminal aliens, right?
We will always stand for the heroes of ICE, Border Patrol, and law enforcement. And by the way, I met a lot of your law enforcement back there. You have great law enforcement police in Missouri. Theyre great people. Among the most underappreciated people in this country, law enforcement, among the most -- dangerous, tough.
Its a tough job, but they are great people, and they love our country. This election is about security, and this election is about prosperity. For years, you watched as we let foreign countries plunder our wealth, shutter our factories, and steal our jobs. No more, Missouri. No more. Not going to happen.
America is respected again. We are respected. We have added half-a-million new manufacturing jobs since the election. Last month alone, we added another 32,000 manufacturing jobs. Thats 1,000 new manufacturing jobs every single day. And the previous administrations said it could not be done. And those are among our best jobs.
I recently announced that we are replacing the horrible NAFTA deal with an incredible, brand new, U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement that everybody is for. The USMCA is a giant victory for Missouri farmers, factory workers, and dairy producers. And the other thing I did, and Ill just mention, for those of you that love your children -- does anybody love their children in the audience?
For those of you that love your children and you want to leave your small farm or your ranch or anything you have, including a small business, to your children, you now have no death tax to pay. You now have no estate tax to pay. So if you dont love your children or if your children treat you badly, and you have no intention of leaving your farm or your other valuables to your children, because your children are just no good, then just forget what I just said because its not going to help you.
But if you want to leave them that farm and you pass, and what happens is they go out and they have to borrow and they mortgage it to the hilt. Its called mortgaging the farm. You know, its an expression. Youre going to mortgage the farm. They mortgage the farm to pay the estate taxes or death taxes, as its called.
They dont have to do that anymore. They dont have to do that anymore. Its gone. Thats a big thing. And the Democrats fought us on that one, too, but we got it by. We have taken historic action to bring back American jobs by cracking down on Chinas abusive trade practices. And were doing very well. Were doing very well.
Were doing very, very well. Were taking in billions and billions of dollars in taxes from things that are sold to us, and China wants to make a deal, and thats fine with me. After years of rebuilding other countries, we are finally rebuilding our country, and we are doing it with American iron, American aluminum, and American steel.
And thanks to our beautifully placed tariffs and very tough trade policies, Americas steel and aluminum mills are roaring back to life like nobody has ever seen. Right here in Missouri, a company named Magnitude 7 Metals -- whoa, whoa, thats good. Well, that I didnt expect. Thats nice. You like that company, dont you?
It is reopening an aluminum smelter and creating 450 brand-new jobs. Would never have happened. Every day its promises made, promises kept. We have also taken bold action to reduce the price of prescription drugs. Happening. Happening. Happening. I called up Pfizer. I called up Novartis, and they were great.
They rolled back their prices. Thats when I realized how powerful this office is. When you can get the drug companies to roll back their increases back to where they were. And I appreciate the fact that they did it. And we have just offered a new, affordable health care plan in Missouri that 71 percent less than the horrible Obamacare disaster.
And theres more coming. We passed veterans choice, giving our veterans the right to see a private doctor rather than waiting on line for weeks and months to see a doctor. Forty-four years, they tried to pass that. And I came up with that idea, and I thought it was brilliant. I went back to my people and I said, you know what well do? Theres no way there are so many people in line, takes months and months.
I said, you know what were going to do? Were going to have those people get off line, go outside, see a doctor. And well pay for the doctor. I said, Im so smart. I am the most brilliant human being that has ever lived. And I went to my people, and I said, do this. Do it. They said, sir, weve been trying to get it passed for about 44 years.
I said, oh, so it wasnt my idea. But you know what? Im the only one that got it passed. Thats even tougher. Thats even tougher. Thats even tougher. And we also got passed the landmark V.A. accountability law to ensure anyone who mistreats our great veterans will be held accountable. We will look at them and we will say, Jim, youre fired.
Get out of here. Get out. Get out. Get out of here. We secured $700 billion and $716 billion to fully rebuild the United States military, which had become so depleted. And we buy everything right here in the good, old USA, best -- best -- we make the best ships, the best submarines. We make the best rockets and missiles.
We make the best jet fighters and bombers and tankers. We make the best tanks. We make the best everything. All here. And we gave our great warriors their largest pay raise in more than a decade. And at my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch of the American armed forces called the Space Force.
The Space Force. Very necessary. And I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal. It was a disaster. And if you havent noticed, Iran is a much different country right now. But lets see what happens. We have recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem.
Every other president practically going back many years, every other president promised it, and they never had the courage or whatever it is to get it done. And I know why. Because everybody started calling, just like they did me. Theyd call and call. When I realized what they were all calling about, I said, tell them Ill call them back in a week.
Now, I was going to sign it in four days. So when I called them back, I said, Mr. King, Mr. Queen, Mr. whatever. I said, listen, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, what is it? Well, we wanted to talk to you about Israel and Jerusalem, but youve already done it. I said, oh, gee, I wish you got to me sooner.
Because the calls were, like, from everybody. So I understand why other presidents didnt do it. But we did it. And its a big thing. Together we have made extraordinary progress, and we are just getting started. This is the greatest political movement in the history of our country, what youve done. The greatest.
History of our country. Two years ago, we shocked the Washington establishment and stunned the world. The entire world was stunned. We werent stunned. We knew what was happening. We knew. When we defied the pundits and the critics and rejected the failures of the corrupt status quo and elected a government that finally puts America first.
Every day, every single day since, every day. The failed old ruling class have been trying so hard, oh, so hard. Wouldnt you think theyd like low taxes, strong military, nice borders, good schools, good health care? Well get it done. Good everything? They dont want that. They want to claw their way back into power.
Thats what they want. Because how can they be opposed to the strongest economy weve ever had? How can they be opposed to the greatest unemployment numbers in the history of our country, including for African-Americans, Asians and Hispanic Americans? How can they be opposed? Theres got to be something else on their mind.
Oh, Im going to love that debate when I say we have the strongest economy in history, and the person over there is going to say why they should do better. Why they should do better. This is the same corrupt crew that chipped away your jobs, stole your wealth, and lined their pockets at your expense. You know thats what happened.
Our opponents have been on a relentless campaign to obstruct, resist, demolish, defame, and destroy. Other than that, theyre extremely nice. But you can stop them with your votes tomorrow. Got to get out there. Josh. Josh, our movement is Americas movement. You are moms and dads, sons and daughters, students and workers, farmers and soldiers.
You follow our laws, give back to our communities, and raise your children to be strong, upstanding citizens. You are loyal and faithful to your country. You love your country. And now, finally, you have a government and you have a president that is loyal and faithful to you. Right? Right? For years, you watched as your leaders apologized for America.
Now you have a president who is standing up for America. We are standing up for your values. We are standing up for Missouri. And we are proudly standing up for our great national anthem. I am asking every citizen from every party, every background, every race, color, and creed, to reject the Democrat politics of anger, division, destruction, and to unite behind our proud, noble, and righteous destiny as Americans.
Its what it is. I need you to get your family, get your friends, get your neighbors, get your co-workers, and go out and vote for Republican Congress, for Republican Senate. Go out and vote Republican tomorrow. This Tuesday -- wait a minute here, this Tuesday in 15 minutes -- were almost into Tuesday. In fact, go home and sleep.
Get up early and vote. I need the people of Missouri to seize this incredible moment in history by electing the great -- and he will be someday the great Josh Hawley -- as your next senator. Devoted citizen like you -- all citizens like you helped build this country, and together we are taking back our country and returning power to the American people.
Its what happened. Greatest movement in history. This incredible state was built by tough frontier men and strong pioneer women who braved the wilderness to build a life and home with their own two hands. They didnt have a lot of money. They didnt have a lot of luxury. But they all had one thing in common: They loved their families.
They loved their country. And they loved their God. These courageous Americans did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others tried to erase their legacy, tear down our history, and destroy our proud and great American heritage. From the Bootheel of Missouri, to the beautiful, big sky of Montana, from the deserts of Nevada to the everglades of Florida, from the coal mines of West Virginia to the steel mills of Indiana, and for every family in every city and town across our land, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win and not stop winning.
We will not bend. We will not break. We will not yield. We will never give in. We will never give up. We will never, ever back down. We will never surrender. And we will always fight on to victory. Because we are Americans, and our hearts bleed red, white, and blue. We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God.
