Donald Trump|Debate: 2nd Presidential Debate Between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton|October 9, 2016
Well, I actually agree with that. I agree with everything she said. I began this campaign because I was so tired of seeing such foolish things happen to our country. This is a great country. This is a great land. Ive gotten to know the people of the country over the last year-and-a-half that Ive been doing this as a politician. I cannot believe Im saying that about myself, but I guess I have been a politician.
And my whole concept was to make America great again. When I watch the deals being made, when I watch whats happening with some horrible things like Obamacare, where your health insurance and health care is going up by numbers that are astronomical, 68 percent, 59 percent, 71 percent, when I look at the Iran deal and how bad a deal it is for us, its a one-sided transaction where were giving back $150 billion to a terrorist state, really, the number one terror state, weve made them a strong country from really a very weak country just three years ago.
When I look at all of the things that I see and all of the potential that our country has, we have such tremendous potential, whether its in business and trade, where were doing so badly. Last year, we had almost $800 billion trade deficit. In other words, trading with other countries. We had an $800 billion deficit. Its hard to believe. Inconceivable.
You say whos making these deals? Were going the make great deals. Were going to have a strong border. Were going to bring back law and order. Just today, policemen was shot, two killed. And this is happening on a weekly basis. We have to bring back respect to law enforcement. At the same time, we have to take care of people on all sides. We need justice.
But I want to do things that havent been done, including fixing and making our inner cities better for the African-American citizens that are so great, and for the Latinos, Hispanics, and I look forward to doing it. Its called make America great again.
No, I didnt say that at all. I dont think you understood what was -- this was locker room talk. Im not proud of it. I apologize to my family. I apologize to the American people. Certainly Im not proud of it. But this is locker room talk.
You know, when we have a world where you have ISIS chopping off heads, where you have -- and, frankly, drowning people in steel cages, where you have wars and horrible, horrible sights all over, where you have so many bad things happening, this is like medieval times. We havent seen anything like this, the carnage all over the world.
And they look and they see. Can you imagine the people that are, frankly, doing so well against us with ISIS? And they look at our country and they see whats going on.
Yes, Im very embarrassed by it. I hate it. But its locker room talk, and its one of those things. I will knock the hell out of ISIS. Were going to defeat ISIS. ISIS happened a number of years ago in a vacuum that was left because of bad judgment. And I will tell you, I will take care of ISIS.
And we should get on to much more important things and much bigger things.
I have great respect for women. Nobody has more respect for women than I do.
Ive said things that, frankly, you hear these things I said. And I was embarrassed by it. But I have tremendous respect for women.
And women have respect for me. And I will tell you: No, I have not. And I will tell you that Im going to make our country safe. Were going to have borders in our country, which we dont have now. People are pouring into our country, and theyre coming in from the Middle East and other places.
Were going to make America safe again. Were going to make America great again, but were going to make America safe again. And were going to make America wealthy again, because if you dont do that, it just -- it sounds harsh to say, but we have to build up the wealth of our nation.
Right now, other nations are taking our jobs and theyre taking our wealth.
And thats what I want to talk about.
Am I allowed to respond to that? I assume I am.
Its just words, folks. Its just words. Those words, Ive been hearing them for many years. I heard them when they were running for the Senate in New York, where Hillary was going to bring back jobs to upstate New York and she failed.
Ive heard them where Hillary is constantly talking about the inner cities of our country, which are a disaster education-wise, jobwise, safety-wise, in every way possible. Im going to help the African-Americans. Im going to help the Latinos, Hispanics. I am going to help the inner cities.
Shes done a terrible job for the African-Americans. She wants their vote, and she does nothing, and then she comes back four years later. We saw that firsthand when she was United States senator. She campaigned where the primary part of her campaign...
So, shes allowed to do that, but Im not allowed to respond?
Sounds fair.
It was locker room talk, as I told you. That was locker room talk. Im not proud of it. I am a person who has great respect for people, for my family, for the people of this country. And certainly, Im not proud of it. But that was something that happened.
If you look at Bill Clinton, far worse. Mine are words, and his was action. His was what hes done to women. Theres never been anybody in the history politics in this nation thats been so abusive to women. So you can say any way you want to say it, but Bill Clinton was abusive to women.
Hillary Clinton attacked those same women and attacked them viciously. Four of them here tonight. One of the women, who is a wonderful woman, at 12 years old, was raped at 12. Her client she represented got him off, and shes seen laughing on two separate occasions, laughing at the girl who was raped. Kathy Shelton, that young woman is here with us tonight.
So dont tell me about words. I am absolutely -- I apologize for those words. But it is things that people say. But what President Clinton did, he was impeached, he lost his license to practice law. He had to pay an $850,000 fine to one of the women. Paula Jones, whos also here tonight.
And I will tell you that when Hillary brings up a point like that and she talks about words that I said 11 years ago, I think its disgraceful, and I think she should be ashamed of herself, if you want to know the truth.
Well, you owe the president an apology, because as you know very well, your campaign, Sidney Blumenthal -- hes another real winner that you have -- and hes the one that got this started, along with your campaign manager, and they were on television just two weeks ago, she was, saying exactly that. So you really owe him an apology. Youre the one that sent the pictures around your campaign, sent the pictures around with President Obama in a certain garb. That was long before I was ever involved, so you actually owe an apology.
Number two, Michelle Obama. Ive gotten to see the commercials that they did on you. And Ive gotten to see some of the most vicious commercials Ive ever seen of Michelle Obama talking about you, Hillary.
So, you talk about friend? Go back and take a look at those commercials, a race where you lost fair and square, unlike the Bernie Sanders race, where you won, but not fair and square, in my opinion. And all you have to do is take a look at WikiLeaks and just see what they say about Bernie Sanders and see what Deborah Wasserman Schultz had in mind, because Bernie Sanders, between super-delegates and Deborah Wasserman Schultz, he never had a chance. And I was so surprised to see him sign on with the devil.
But when you talk about apology, I think the one that you should really be apologizing for and the thing that you should be apologizing for are the 33,000 e-mails that you deleted, and that you acid washed, and then the two boxes of e-mails and other things last week that were taken from an office and are now missing.
And Ill tell you what. I didnt think Id say this, but Im going to say it, and I hate to say it. But if I win, I am going to instruct my attorney general to get a special prosecutor to look into your situation, because there has never been so many lies, so much deception. There has never been anything like it, and were going to have a special prosecutor.
When I speak, I go out and speak, the people of this country are furious. In my opinion, the people that have been long-term workers at the FBI are furious. There has never been anything like this, where e-mails -- and you get a subpoena, you get a subpoena, and after getting the subpoena, you delete 33,000 e-mails, and then you acid wash them or bleach them, as you would say, very expensive process.
So were going to get a special prosecutor, and were going to look into it, because you know what? People have been -- their lives have been destroyed for doing one-fifth of what youve done. And its a disgrace. And honestly, you ought to be ashamed of yourself.
Oh, really?
Because youd be in jail.
And yet she didnt know the word -- the letter C on a document. Right? She didnt even know what that word -- what that letter meant.
You know, its amazing. Im watching Hillary go over facts. And shes going after fact after fact, and shes lying again, because she said she -- you know, what she did with the e-mail was fine. You think it was fine to delete 33,000 e-mails? I dont think so.
She said the 33,000 e-mails had to do with her daughters wedding, number one, and a yoga class. Well, maybe well give three or three or four or five or something. 33,000 e-mails deleted, and now shes saying there wasnt anything wrong.
And more importantly, that was after getting a subpoena. That wasnt before. That was after. She got it from the United States Congress. And Ill be honest, I am so disappointed in congressmen, including Republicans, for allowing this to happen.
Our Justice Department, where our husband goes on to the back of a airplane for 39 minutes, talks to the attorney general days before a ruling is going to be made on her case. But for you to say that there was nothing wrong with you deleting 39,000 e-mails, again, you should be ashamed of yourself. What you did -- and this is after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress.
You did that. Wait a minute. One second.
If you did that in the private sector, youd be put in jail, let alone after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress.
Oh, you didnt delete them?
Oh, 33,000? Yeah.
Oh, yeah. What about the other 15,000?
Because you have nothing to say.
Get off this question.
Lets see what happens...
Id like to know, Anderson, why arent you bringing up the e-mails? Id like to know. Why arent you bringing...
No, it hasnt. It hasnt. And it hasnt been finished at all.
Its nice to -- one on three.
No, Im a gentlemen, Hillary. Go ahead.
It is such a great question and its maybe the question I get almost more than anything else, outside of defense. Obamacare is a disaster. You know it. We all know it. Its going up at numbers that nobodys ever seen worldwide. Nobodys ever seen numbers like this for health care.
Its only getting worse. In 17, it implodes by itself. Their method of fixing it is to go back and ask Congress for more money, more and more money. We have right now almost $20 trillion in debt.
Obamacare will never work. Its very bad, very bad health insurance. Far too expensive. And not only expensive for the person that has it, unbelievably expensive for our country. Its going to be one of the biggest line items very shortly.
We have to repeal it and replace it with something absolutely much less expensive and something that works, where your plan can actually be tailored. We have to get rid of the lines around the state, artificial lines, where we stop insurance companies from coming in and competing, because they want -- and President Obama and whoever was working on it -- they want to leave those lines, because that gives the insurance companies essentially monopolies. We want competition.
You will have the finest health care plan there is. She wants to go to a single-payer plan, which would be a disaster, somewhat similar to Canada. And if you havent noticed the Canadians, when they need a big operation, when something happens, they come into the United States in many cases because their system is so slow. Its catastrophic in certain ways.
But she wants to go to single payer, which means the government basically rules everything. Hillary Clinton has been after this for years. Obamacare was the first step. Obamacare is a total disaster. And not only are your rates going up by numbers that nobodys ever believed, but your deductibles are going up, so that unless you get hit by a truck, youre never going to be able to use it.
It is a disastrous plan, and it has to be repealed and replaced.
Well, I just want -- just one thing. First of all, Hillary, everythings broken about it. Everything. Number two, Bernie Sanders said that Hillary Clinton has very bad judgment. This is a perfect example of it, trying to save Obamacare, which is a disaster.
By the way...
Were going to be able to. Youre going to have plans...
Well, Ill tell you what it means. Youre going to have plans that are so good, because were going to have so much competition in the insurance industry. Once we break out -- once we break out the lines and allow the competition to come...
President Obama -- Anderson, excuse me. President Obama, by keeping those lines, the boundary lines around each state, it was almost gone until just very toward the end of the passage of Obamacare, which, by the way, was a fraud. You know that, because Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare, was said -- he said it was a great lie, it was a big lie. President Obama said you keep your doctor, you keep your plan. The whole thing was a fraud, and it doesnt work.
But when we get rid of those lines, you will have competition, and we will be able to keep pre-existing, well also be able to help people that cant get -- dont have money because we are going to have people protected.
And Republicans feel this way, believe it or not, and strongly this way. Were going to block grant into the states. Were going to block grant into Medicaid into the states...
... so that we will be able to take care of people without the necessary funds to take care of themselves.
Well, youre right about Islamophobia, and thats a shame. But one thing we have to do is we have to make sure that -- because there is a problem. I mean, whether we like it or not, and we could be very politically correct, but whether we like it or not, there is a problem. And we have to be sure that Muslims come in and report when they see something going on. When they see hatred going on, they have to report it.
As an example, in San Bernardino, many people saw the bombs all over the apartment of the two people that killed 14 and wounded many, many people. Horribly wounded. Theyll never be the same. Muslims have to report the problems when they see them.
And, you know, theres always a reason for everything. If they dont do that, its a very difficult situation for our country, because you look at Orlando and you look at San Bernardino and you look at the World Trade Center. Go outside. Look at Paris. Look at that horrible -- these are radical Islamic terrorists.
And she wont even mention the word and nor will President Obama. He wont use the term radical Islamic terrorism." Now
First of all, Captain Khan is an American hero, and if I were president at that time, he would be alive today, because unlike her, who voted for the war without knowing what she was doing, I would not have had our people in Iraq. Iraq was disaster. So he would have been alive today.
The Muslim ban is something that in some form has morphed into a extreme vetting from certain areas of the world. Hillary Clinton wants to allow hundreds of thousands -- excuse me. Excuse me..
Why dont you interrupt her? You interrupt me all the time.
Why dont you interrupt her?
Its called extreme vetting. We are going to areas like Syria where theyre coming in by the tens of thousands because of Barack Obama. And Hillary Clinton wants to allow a 550 percent increase over Obama. People are coming into our country like we have no idea who they are, where they are from, what their feelings about our country is, and she wants 550 percent more. This is going to be the great Trojan horse of all time.
We have enough problems in this country. I believe in building safe zones. I believe in having other people pay for them, as an example, the Gulf states, who are not carrying their weight, but they have nothing but money, and take care of people. But I dont want to have, with all the problems this country has and all of the problems that you see going on, hundreds of thousands of people coming in from Syria when we know nothing about them. We know nothing about their values and we know nothing about their love for our country.
Thats not been debunked.
That has not been debunked.
I was against -- I was against the war in Iraq. Has not been debunked. And you voted for it. And you shouldnt have. Well, I just want to say...
Excuse me. She just went about 25 seconds over her time.
Could I just respond to this, please?
Hillary Clinton, in terms of having people come into our country, we have many criminal illegal aliens. When we want to send them back to their country, their country says we dont want them. In some cases, theyre murderers, drug lords, drug problems. And they dont want them.
And Hillary Clinton, when she was secretary of state, said thats OK, we cant force it into their country. Let me tell you, Im going to force them right back into their country. Theyre murderers and some very bad people.
And I will tell you very strongly, when Bernie Sanders said she had bad judgment, she has really bad judgment, because we are letting people into this country that are going to cause problems and crime like youve never seen. Were also letting drugs pour through our southern border at a record clip. At a record clip. And it shouldnt be allowed to happen.
ICE just endorsed me. Theyve never endorsed a presidential candidate. The Border Patrol agents, 16,500, just recently endorsed me, and they endorsed me because I understand the border. She doesnt. She wants amnesty for everybody. Come right in. Come right over. Its a horrible thing shes doing. Shes got bad judgment, and honestly, so bad that she should never be president of the United States. That I can tell you.
Well, I think I should respond, because -- so ridiculous. Look, now shes blaming -- she got caught in a total lie. Her papers went out to all her friends at the banks, Goldman Sachs and everybody else, and she said things -- WikiLeaks that just came out. And she lied. Now shes blaming the lie on the late, great Abraham Lincoln. Thats one that I havent...
OK, Honest Abe, Honest Abe never lied. Thats the good thing. Thats the big difference between Abraham Lincoln and you. Thats a big, big difference. Were talking about some difference.
But as far as other elements of what she was saying, I dont know Putin. I think it would be great if we got along with Russia because we could fight ISIS together, as an example. But I dont know Putin.
But I notice, anytime anything wrong happens, they like to say the Russians are -- she doesnt know if its the Russians doing the hacking. Maybe there is no hacking. But they always blame Russia. And the reason they blame Russia because they think theyre trying to tarnish me with Russia. I know nothing about Russia. I know -- I know about Russia, but I know nothing about the inner workings of Russia. I dont deal there. I have no businesses there. I have no loans from Russia.
I have a very, very great balance sheet, so great that when I did the Old Post Office on Pennsylvania Avenue, the United States government, because of my balance sheet, which they actually know very well, chose me to do the Old Post Office, between the White House and Congress, chose me to do the Old Post Office. One of the primary area things, in fact, perhaps the primary thing was balance sheet. But I have no loans with Russia. You could go to the United States government, and they would probably tell you that, because they know my sheet very well in order to get that development I had to have.
Now, the taxes are a very simple thing. As soon as I have -- first of all, I pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. Many of her friends took bigger deductions. Warren Buffett took a massive deduction. Soros, whos a friend of hers, took a massive deduction. Many of the people that are giving her all this money that she can do many more commercials than me gave her -- took massive deductions.
I pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. But -- but as soon as my routine audit is finished, Ill release my returns. Ill be very proud to. Theyre actually quite great.
Well, one thing Id do is get rid of carried interest. One of the greatest provisions for people like me, to be honest with you, I give up a lot when I run, because I knock out the tax code. And she could have done this years ago, by the way. Shes a United States -- she was a United States senator.
She complains that Donald Trump took advantage of the tax code. Well, why didnt she change it? Why didnt you change it when you were a senator? The reason you didnt is that all your friends take the same advantage that I do. And I do. You have provisions in the tax code that, frankly, we could change. But you wouldnt change it, because all of these people gave you the money so you can take negative ads on Donald Trump.
But -- and I say that about a lot of things. You know, Ive heard Hillary complaining about so many different things over the years. I wish you would have done this." But shes been there for 30 years shes been doing this stuff. She never changed. And she never will change. She never will change.""ut -- and I say that about a lot of things. You know
Were getting rid of carried interest provisions. Im lowering taxes actually, because I think its so important for corporations, because we have corporations leaving -- massive corporations and little ones, little ones cant form. Were getting rid of regulations which goes hand in hand with the lowering of the taxes.
But were bringing the tax rate down from 35 percent to 15 percent. Were cutting taxes for the middle class. And I will tell you, we are cutting them big league for the middle class.
And I will tell you, Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes, folks. You can look at me. Shes raising your taxes really high. And what thats going to do is a disaster for the country. But she is raising your taxes and Im lowering your taxes. That in itself is a big difference. We are going to be thriving again. We have no growth in this country. Theres no growth. If China has a GDP of 7 percent, its like a national catastrophe. Were down at 1 percent. And thats, like, no growth. And were going lower, in my opinion. And a lot of it has to do with the fact that our taxes are so high, just about the highest in the world. And Im bringing them down to one of the lower in the world. And I think its so important -- one of the most important things we can do. But she is raising everybodys taxes massively.
Of course I do. Of course I do. And so do all of her donors, or most of her donors. I know many of her donors. Her donors took massive tax write-offs.
A lot of my -- excuse me, Anderson -- a lot of my write- off was depreciation and other things that Hillary as a senator allowed. And shell always allow it, because the people that give her all this money, they want it. Thats why.
See, I understand the tax code better than anybody thats ever run for president. Hillary Clinton -- and its extremely complex -- Hillary Clinton has friends that want all of these provisions, including they want the carried interest provision, which is very important to Wall Street people. But they really want the carried interest provision, which I believe Hillarys leaving. Very interesting why shes leaving carried interest.
But I will tell you that, number one, I pay tremendous numbers of taxes. I absolutely used it. And so did Warren Buffett and so did George Soros and so did many of the other people that Hillary is getting money from. Now, I wont mention their names, because theyre rich, but theyre not famous. So we wont make them famous.
No, but I pay tax, and I pay federal tax, too. But I have a write-off, a lot of its depreciation, which is a wonderful charge. I love depreciation. You know, shes given it to us.
Hey, if she had a problem -- for 30 years shes been doing this, Anderson. I say it all the time. She talks about health care. Why didnt she do something about it? She talks about taxes. Why didnt she do something about it? She doesnt do anything about anything other than talk. With her, its all talk and no action.
And, again, Bernie Sanders, its really bad judgment. She has made bad judgment not only on taxes. Shes made bad judgments on Libya, on Syria, on Iraq. I mean, her and Obama, whether you like it or not, the way they got out of Iraq, the vacuum theyve left, thats why ISIS formed in the first place. They started from that little area, and now theyre in 32 different nations, Hillary. Congratulations. Great job.
Why didnt you do it? Why didnt you do it?
Oh, really?
You could have done it, if you were an effective -- if you were an effective senator, you could have done it. If you were an effective senator, you could have done it. But you were not an effective senator.
She said a lot of things that were false. I mean, I think we should be allowed to maybe...
Excuse me. Because she has been a disaster as a senator. A disaster.
First of all, she was there as secretary of state with the so-called line in the sand, which...
OK. But you were in contact -- excuse me. You were...
You were in total contact with the White House, and perhaps, sadly, Obama probably still listened to you. I dont think he would be listening to you very much anymore.
Obama draws the line in the sand. It was laughed at all over the world what happened.
Now, with that being said, she talks tough against Russia. But our nuclear program has fallen way behind, and theyve gone wild with their nuclear program. Not good. Our government shouldnt have allowed that to happen. Russia is new in terms of nuclear. We are old. Were tired. Were exhausted in terms of nuclear. A very bad thing.
Now, she talks tough, she talks really tough against Putin and against Assad. She talks in favor of the rebels. She doesnt even know who the rebels are. You know, every time we take rebels, whether its in Iraq or anywhere else, were arming people. And you know what happens? They end up being worse than the people.
Look at what she did in Libya with Gadhafi. Gadhafis out. Its a mess. And, by the way, ISIS has a good chunk of their oil. Im sure you probably have heard that. It was a disaster. Because the fact is, almost everything shes done in foreign policy has been a mistake and its been a disaster.
But if you look at Russia, just take a look at Russia, and look at what they did this week, where I agree, she wasnt there, but possibly shes consulted. We sign a peace treaty. Everyones all excited. Well, what Russia did with Assad and, by the way, with Iran, who you made very powerful with the dumbest deal perhaps Ive ever seen in the history of deal-making, the Iran deal, with the $150 billion, with the $1.7 billion in cash, which is enough to fill up this room.
But look at that deal. Iran now and Russia are now against us. So she wants to fight. She wants to fight for rebels. Theres only one problem. You dont even know who the rebels are. So whats the purpose?
And one thing I have to say.
I dont like Assad at all, but Assad is killing ISIS. Russia is killing ISIS. And Iran is killing ISIS. And those three have now lined up because of our weak foreign policy.
OK. He and I havent spoken, and I disagree. I disagree.
I think you have to knock out ISIS. Right now, Syria is fighting ISIS. We have people that want to fight both at the same time. But Syria is no longer Syria. Syria is Russia and its Iran, who she made strong and Kerry and Obama made into a very powerful nation and a very rich nation, very, very quickly, very, very quickly.
I believe we have to get ISIS. We have to worry about ISIS before we can get too much more involved. She had a chance to do something with Syria. They had a chance. And that was the line. And she didnt.
I think Aleppo is a disaster, humanitarian-wise.
I think that it basically has fallen. OK? It basically has fallen. Let me tell you something. You take a look at Mosul. The biggest problem I have with the stupidity of our foreign policy, we have Mosul. They think a lot of the ISIS leaders are in Mosul. So we have announcements coming out of Washington and coming out of Iraq, we will be attacking Mosul in three weeks or four weeks.
Well, all of these bad leaders from ISIS are leaving Mosul. Why cant they do it quietly? Why cant they do the attack, make it a sneak attack, and after the attack is made, inform the American public that weve knocked out the leaders, weve had a tremendous success? People leave. Why do they have to say were going to be attacking Mosul within the next four to six weeks, which is what theyre saying? How stupid is our country?
I cant think of any. I cant think of any. And Im pretty good at it.
And we have General Flynn. And we have -- look, I have 200 generals and admirals who endorsed me. I have 21 Congressional Medal of Honor recipients who endorsed me. We talk about it all the time. They understand, why cant they do something secretively, where they go in and they knock out the leadership? How -- why would these people stay there? Ive been reading now...
... for weeks -- Ive been reading now for weeks about Mosul, that its the harbor of where -- you know, between Raqqa and Mosul, this is where they think the ISIS leaders are. Why would they be saying -- theyre not staying there anymore. Theyre gone. Because everybodys talking about how Iraq, which is us with our leadership, goes in to fight Mosul.
Now, with these 200 admirals and generals, they cant believe it. All I say is this. General George Patton, General Douglas MacArthur are spinning in their grave at the stupidity of what were doing in the Middle East.
Everything.
You know whats funny? She went over a minute over, and you dont stop her. When I go one second over, its like a big deal.
Its really -- its really very interesting.
Absolutely. I mean, she calls our people deplorable, a large group, and irredeemable. I will be a president for all of our people. And Ill be a president that will turn our inner cities around and will give strength to people and will give economics to people and will bring jobs back.
Because NAFTA, signed by her husband, is perhaps the greatest disaster trade deal in the history of the world. Not in this country. It stripped us of manufacturing jobs. We lost our jobs. We lost our money. We lost our plants. It is a disaster. And now she wants to sign TPP, even though she says now shes for it. She called it the gold standard. And by the way, at the last debate, she lied, because it turned out that she did say the gold standard and she said she didnt say it. They actually said that she lied. OK? And she lied. But shes lied about a lot of things.
I would be a president for all of the people, African- Americans, the inner cities. Devastating whats happening to our inner cities. Shes been talking about it for years. As usual, she talks about it, nothing happens. She doesnt get it done.
Same with the Latino Americans, the Hispanic Americans. The same exact thing. They talk, they dont get it done. You go into the inner cities and -- you see its 45 percent poverty. African- Americans now 45 percent poverty in the inner cities. The education is a disaster. Jobs are essentially nonexistent.
I mean, its -- you know, and Ive been saying at big speeches where I have 20,000 and 30,000 people, what do you have to lose? It cant get any worse. And shes been talking about the inner cities for 25 years. Nothings going to ever happen.
Let me tell you, if shes president of the United States, nothings going to happen. Its just going to be talk. And all of her friends, the taxes we were talking about, and I would just get it by osmosis. Shes not doing any me favors. But by doing all the others favors, shes doing me favors.
But I will tell you, shes all talk. It doesnt get done. All you have to do is take a look at her Senate run. Take a look at upstate New York.
It turned out to be a disaster.
... but we believed that we could make the country better. And I was proud of that.
We have a divided nation. We have a very divided nation. You look at Charlotte. You look at Baltimore. You look at the violence thats taking place in the inner cities, Chicago, you take a look at Washington, D.C.
We have an increase in murder within our cities, the biggest in 45 years. We have a divided nation, because people like her -- and believe me, she has tremendous hate in her heart. And when she said deplorables, she meant it. And when she said irredeemable, theyre irredeemable, you didnt mention that, but when she said theyre irredeemable, to me that might have been even worse.
Shes got tremendous -- shes got tremendous hatred. And this country cannot take another four years of Barack Obama, and thats what youre getting with her.
No, there wasnt check out a sex tape. It was just take a look at the person that she built up to be this wonderful Girl Scout who was no Girl Scout.
By the way, just so you understand, when she said 3 oclock in the morning, take a look at Benghazi. She said who is going to answer the call at 3 oclock in the morning? Guess what? She didnt answer it, because when Ambassador Stevens...
... 600 -- wait a minute, Anderson, 600 times. Well, she said she was awake at 3 oclock in the morning, and she also sent a tweet out at 3 oclock in the morning, but I wont even mention that. But she said shell be awake. Whos going -- the famous thing, were going to answer our call at 3 oclock in the morning. Guess what happened? Ambassador Stevens -- Ambassador Stevens sent 600 requests for help. And the only one she talked to was Sidney Blumenthal, whos her friend and not a good guy, by the way. So, you know, she shouldnt be talking about that.
Now, tweeting happens to be a modern day form of communication. I mean, you can like it or not like it. I have, between Facebook and Twitter, I have almost 25 million people. Its a very effective way of communication. So you can put it down, but it is a very effective form of communication. Im not un-proud of it, to be honest with you.
Im shocked to hear that.
We have the slowest growth since 1929.
It is -- our country has the slowest growth and jobs are a disaster.
Justice Scalia, great judge, died recently. And we have a vacancy. I am looking to appoint judges very much in the mold of Justice Scalia. Im looking for judges -- and Ive actually picked 20 of them so that people would see, highly respected, highly thought of, and actually very beautifully reviewed by just about everybody.
But people that will respect the Constitution of the United States. And I think that this is so important. Also, the Second Amendment, which is totally under siege by people like Hillary Clinton. Theyll respect the Second Amendment and what it stands for, what it represents. So important to me.
Now, Hillary mentioned something about contributions just so you understand. So I will have in my race more than $100 million put in -- of my money, meaning Im not taking all of this big money from all of these different corporations like shes doing. What I ask is this.
So Im putting in more than -- by the time its finished, Ill have more than $100 million invested. Pretty much self-funding money. Were raising money for the Republican Party, and were doing tremendously on the small donations, $61 average or so.
I ask Hillary, why doesnt -- she made $250 million by being in office. She used the power of her office to make a lot of money. Why isnt she funding, not for $100 million, but why dont you put $10 million or $20 million or $25 million or $30 million into your own campaign?
Its $30 million less for special interests that will tell you exactly what to do and it would really, I think, be a nice sign to the American public. Why arent you putting some money in? You have a lot of it. Youve made a lot of it because of the fact that youve been in office. Made a lot of it while you were secretary of state, actually. So why arent you putting money into your own campaign? Im just curious.
Absolutely. I think its such a great question, because energy is under siege by the Obama administration. Under absolutely siege. The EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, is killing these energy companies. And foreign companies are now coming in buying our -- buying so many of our different plants and then re-jiggering the plant so that they can take care of their oil.
We are killing -- absolutely killing our energy business in this country. Now, Im all for alternative forms of energy, including wind, including solar, et cetera. But we need much more than wind and solar.
And you look at our miners. Hillary Clinton wants to put all the miners out of business. There is a thing called clean coal. Coal will last for 1,000 years in this country. Now we have natural gas and so many other things because of technology. We have unbelievable -- we have found over the last seven years, we have found tremendous wealth right under our feet. So good. Especially when you have $20 trillion in debt.
I will bring our energy companies back. Theyll be able to compete. Theyll make money. Theyll pay off our national debt. Theyll pay off our tremendous budget deficits, which are tremendous. But we are putting our energy companies out of business. We have to bring back our workers.
You take a look at whats happening to steel and the cost of steel and China dumping vast amounts of steel all over the United States, which essentially is killing our steelworkers and our steel companies. We have to guard our energy companies. We have to make it possible.
The EPA is so restrictive that they are putting our energy companies out of business. And all you have to do is go to a great place like West Virginia or places like Ohio, which is phenomenal, or places like Pennsylvania and you see what theyre doing to the people, miners and others in the energy business. Its a disgrace.
Its an absolute disgrace.
Well, I consider her statement about my children to be a very nice compliment. I dont know if it was meant to be a compliment, but it is a great -- Im very proud of my children. And theyve done a wonderful job, and theyve been wonderful, wonderful kids. So I consider that a compliment.
I will say this about Hillary. She doesnt quit. She doesnt give up. I respect that. I tell it like it is. Shes a fighter. I disagree with much of what shes fighting for. I do disagree with her judgment in many cases. But she does fight hard, and she doesnt quit, and she doesnt give up. And I consider that to be a very good trait.
