Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Holds a Cabinet Meeting at The White House|July 16, 2019
Thank you very much. Our Cabinet meeting. And well start with a prayer, please. Rick Perry.
Good.
That was very good. Thank you very much, Rick. Well done. Well done. Thank you all for being here in the Cabinet meeting. We have them quite often, and they really produce results. Were producing results I dont think any administration ever, in two and a half years -- the first two and a half years certainly -- has produced the results that weve produced.
We have the strongest stock market in the history of our country. By the way, just in walking in, we just set a new record. Just went up today. We had -- a new record was set. The Dow Jones went over 27,000 for the first time ever. It went over 26,000 for the first time ever, and 25,000 for the first time ever.
So, weve set it. I think were over 100 since election. Were over 100 times that weve set a new stock market record. And, to me, thats not just a record; that means jobs. Its all about jobs. Its jobs for this country. Were bringing in many, many countries. Theyre coming in. Theyre coming in at a level that we havent seen for decades.
Car companies are coming in -- Japanese car companies, in particular. Although, Germany called to say that theyre going to be announcing some very big movement with respect to a certain company that Ive demanded has to come, because they sell us a lot of cars but they make them in other places. We want them making them in the United States.
But Japan has 12 different companies building plants in Michigan, in Ohio, in North Carolina, in Pennsylvania. One is going to be announced in Florida. We are doing things that nobody thought were possible. I wouldnt have even said them, frankly, during the campaign because nobody wouldve been able to believe them.
Nobody wouldve believed them. Our unemployment numbers are historic, in the sense that weve never had better numbers. African American have the best numbers in the history of our country. Hispanic American -- the best unemployment numbers in the history of our country. Women -- 75 years. Asian Americans -- best in the history of our country.
We have the best overall unemployment, the best in 51 years. And, very soon, that will be historic -- meaning the history of our country -- if we keep going the way were going, and it should be fairly soon. So things are happening that we wouldnt have believed happening, or could happen. The border: Were working very hard, with everybody -- the Attorney General.
Were doing everything we can do without getting Congress to act because the Democrats refuse to act. They refuse to do what they have to do and what they should do, and thats loopholes. We have loopholes that are so bad, you could drive a truck through them. They could be solved in 15 minutes; would have those loopholes taken care.
Literally -- everyone knows what they are; theyre very simple. You know what they are. You know what they are better than the people in Congress. But the Democrats, we need their votes. Not that we need them; we need their votes -- because we have a very, very small margins both ways. The Senate is 53-47. The House is very tight.
Its a very tight House, too. Very small number. We need Democrat votes to get up to what we need. Thats why we didnt do it last time -- first two years -- because we only had -- we needed 9 to 10 Democrat votes, and we were never able to get them for certain things. But we were -- but wherever we could use the majority, we ended doing a fantastic job, including two Supreme Court judges.
We got two Supreme Court justices put on, and many other things. But we need Democrat votes to get the border fully secured, fully taken care of. Were getting close. Mexico has been fantastic. We had a meeting with Mexico. For 45 years, people have been trying to get Mexico to do what theyre doing now, and they werent able to get it. And we got it in one day -- everything.
Mexico now has approximately 21,000 soldiers on their land. They have very powerful immigration laws. They can do what they have to do. We have the worst laws in the entire world. Theres no law like this, where we catch them and release them. We catch them and we say, "Come back to court in five years." And nobody comes back.
Two percent, to be accurate. I want to be accurate because I dont want the press to say I was inaccurate. Two percent come back. And those people, we wonder why -- why theyre coming back. Theyre the only ones. So we can straighten that out. We are getting rid of thousands of people who are criminals.
Were taking them out of the country -- MS-13 -- by the thousands. And theyre going out quickly. We do it very professionally. We have papers on everybody we take out. All documented, all very legal. They come in illegally and they go out legally. So weve done a job. On Sunday, there was a lot of activity, but you didnt even see it because it went very smoothly.
The ICE folks and the people from Border Patrol, the job they do, is -- theyre heroes in so many ways. We have Border Patrol, though, being nurses and doctors and janitors. And I very much want to thank Vice President Pence for taking a whole delegation of people down to see the things that one of our very radical-left Democrats call "concentration camps." Theyre not concentration camps.
Theyre really well run. Theyre very crowded, in many cases. Actually, in the case of the children, they werent crowded at all. People came back and they -- even some of the news -- which is shocking, frankly -- said they were very well run, very clean, very nice for the children. We had an adult center of males.
Many of these people were criminals. Were not letting them out. We cant let them out. And it was crowded; very crowded. And the best way they can solve that is dont come up. If you dont come up, youre not going to be crowded. We want to take people in legally, and we want to take them in, frankly, through merit.
We want our companies to be helped. All these companies that are pouring into the United States because were the hottest country in the world right now. Every time I meet a leader -- a president, a prime minister, a king, a queen -- they all say, "Thank you, and nice to meet you. Its wonderful. By the way, congratulations on your economy.
What youve done is incredible." You read yesterday where China is down very substantially. Theyre having the worst year theyve had in 27 years. I dont want to have them have bad years. But we made a deal and they broke the deal on me. The deal was done. It was practically done. It was just like a very short period of time, we wouldve had it finished.
And they broke the deal. They decided they didnt want to do the things that they had agreed to. So I said, "Thats all right." We put tariffs on. Twenty-five percent on $250 billion. Its obviously having a very negative -- I dont want it to have a negative impact. Not having any impact on us other than positive, because China devalues their currency, and theyre pumping money into their system.
Our people arent paying for that. Theres been no inflation. Theres been no nothing. Frankly, if we ever got interest rates down where they should be, and if they werent raised so fast, you would see another, probably, 10,000 points on the Dow. Were setting records. I dont want to act like -- its like somebody gets a 99 on a test and theyre complaining.
I dont like that. But Im going to complain --  -- because, frankly, we wouldve done even better had we had a Federal Reserve that didnt raise interest rates so quickly. And had we had a Federal Reserve -- and there are many people on the Federal Reserve. You know, we have votes. Its called votes.
But if we had a Federal Reserve that didnt do quantitative tightening -- they did quantitative tightening -- $50 billion a month. Thats a lot of money. Now theyre doing $25 billion a month. Whereas, in Europe, they are pumping money into their system and theyre lowering rates. In China, they are pumping money into their system and theyre lowering rates very substantially.
In Europe, the rates almost zero. And, in China, the rates are whatever President Xi wants. Hes his own Fed. Hes the Federal Reserve. Hes -- one man. Hes the Federal Reserve. Hes the President. Hes everything else. But, unfortunately, what they did was not appropriate. They are supposed to be buying farm products.
Lets see whether or not they do -- our ag, our great farmers. But out of the tariffs, I took $16 billion to make up for the shortfall. I went to Secretary Sonny Perdue. Hes a fantastic gentleman. By the way, is he here?
What happened? Hes working on -- hes working with the farmers. They have a big meeting in California. Good. Im glad hes there. He can do more help there. Hes done a fantastic job. I said, "What was the amount at its highest that China pumped into the farmers in the form of purchase?" "Sixteen billion dollars." I said, "Thats all right, were taking in many, many times that in tariffs.
Were going to help the farmers out." And I did that with $16 billion. It cost us nothing. Same thing as if they bought. And yet, the farmers dont even want that. They really just want to make the product and sell it. But it was just a small percentage of the tariffs that were taking in. And we have a long way to go as far as tariffs, where China is concerned, if we want.
We have another $325 billion that we can put a tariff on if we want. So were talking to China about a deal. But I wish they didnt break the deal that we had. We had a deal where China opened up. We had a deal where thered be -- intellectual property theft would be taken care of because its estimated that they steal $300 billion worth of intellectual property a deal.
Who knows. Who knows. Thats what they tell me. Three hundred billion. Thats a big number. How they get to that number, Ill accept it -- theyre experts. Thats what they do. But thats a big number. You add that to the fact that, during the Obama administration, $500 billion a year was being lost to China.
Five hundred billion. They did nothing. And, in all fairness, whether you go back to Bush, you go back to Clinton -- you can go back a long way -- the WTO. Once the World Trade Organization was formed, China became like a rocket ship. But now were doing something about it. Now were doing something about it. And -- were doing a lot about it. We picked up close to $20 trillion in wealth during my administration, from election.
And, I have to say "from election." Because when I got elected, the stock market -- the day after, the stock market went wild. If I would not have gotten elected, you would have had a crash. So I cant give Obama credit -- President Obama -- credit for the tremendous gain from the day I won until January 20th, was when I took office.
Because that was all attributed to the enthusiasm that weve caused and that weve had as a country. From the election until now, its been extraordinary. Weve picked up $20 trillion. China has lost $20 trillion. If my opponent had won, China would right now be number one in the world. Right now, were number one in the world, by far.
Were going to keep it that way. And if you have smart people sitting in this chair, in this position, youre not going to lose. So weve got an extraordinary country. Were doing numbers that have never been done before. I think a number that makes me the happiest is that, proportionately, the biggest gainer in this entire stock market -- when you hear about how much has gone up -- blue-collar workers, the biggest proportionate gainer.
Theyve had a tremendous gain. The workers have had a tremendous gain. People without a diploma -- high school diploma -- have had a tremendous gain. Our country is doing really, really well. Just to finish: 401s. People have 401s. Many of you have 401s. Your 401s are up 50 percent, 60 percent -- somebody told me 78 percent.
People that were losing money all their lives are now doubling their income and doubling their -- the money that they had in the bank is being doubled up. Their 401s are going through the roof. And theyre getting a lot of credit from their wives or husband, whichever one. Because the one thats doing it is saying, "Youre a financial genius."  "Darling, I love you very much.
First time in your life, I think youre a financial genius."  And it would have been just the opposite had the opponent -- this country was set for a big fall had we not come in and cut regulations immediately and let our country breathe. Whether its the pipelines that we approved on almost day one, or LNG plants.
I just left Louisiana; we cut a ribbon for a $10 billion LNG plant thats so incredible. People wouldnt believe it. It was many, many years trying to get permits; they couldnt get the permits. But we got the permits and we got them very rapidly. And that was a great thing. Great thing. You know the plant Im talking about, Rick.
And we have about six of them now under consideration. We hadnt built one in 40 years. Forty years. We didnt build plants like that. So, our country is doing things that nobody thought would even be possible. Were doing incredibly well. Id like to start off -- and if youd like to stay for this, you can.
Ben Carson is going to say a few words about HUD. And then I think Jared is going to talk a little bit about immigration and some of our plans for immigration. And then were going to go around the table. And if the press wants to stay, you can. If youd like to leave -- its like I said the other day: I dont mind.
If you want to leave, thats your option. You can leave anytime you want, okay? Please, Ben.
Thank you.
But I thought I had a silver tongue.  I heard that so often. I always thought I had a silver tongue.  But I agree with you.
Thank you very much.
And you have said that, and I appreciate it. Thank you, Ben.
And -- but I might add that Opportunity Zones, for the media, is one of the hottest things anyone has ever done with respect to inner cities and with respect to minorities. It is working out far beyond anybodys expectation.
I dont think its been written about very much, but Im not that surprised at that. But the Opportunity Zones are an incredible thing. And if you want to do something, you should write about them. Because whats happened, the employment, the investment -- people are investing that would have never invested in these locations in a million years, and theyre investing a lot of money.
It has absolutely been -- you can talk about the number of sites, the number of cities.
Whats happened with Opportunity Zones is somewhat of a miracle. Nobody in their wildest imagination thought this could happen.
So -- so as most of the people in the room know, Scott was a great football player -- not a good player; a great player.  Well known for being a great player. Scott, you may be better at this.  I dont know if thats an insult or not. You may be better at this, okay?
Thank you.
Really a great job. Thank you very much. Im going to ask -- Ben, would you like to finish up? Its a tough act to follow, Ben, right?
Right.
Fantastic job. Beautiful words. We appreciate it. Thank you, Ben. Really good job. Id like to ask Jared Kushner to talk about the immigration policy -- the plans -- what we have short-term and long-term. Thank you very much.
Fantastic job. Thank you, Jared. This is a commonsense plan. Its a plan where weve studied almost every country. Some good. Some bad. Some tremendously successful. Some not successful at all. And this is the best of everything. And it gives incentive to people. It also -- we have a problem. Im called constantly by people; they want to have really smart people working in their companies.
We have companies where you need very smart people, and we dont have a provision for smart people. You can graduate from a college, you can be number one in your class in the best college in the country and be thrown out of the country the following day. And we want to be able to keep people in that have this kind of genius.
Silicon Valley is constantly complaining. Theyre building places in Canada. Theyre building places elsewhere because our immigration plans dont allow this. Well, we have to have this. Whether we like it or not, we have to have this. And well be able to get it. But Ive met with many people that have very good intentions, but have to have smart people and they have to have smart people stay in our country and be able to stay here for a period of time -- not just for a short period of time, where they cant even buy a house.
They dont know if their family should move. So were doing a lot of things to help people. I think as you saw it -- as Jared really put it very well -- our country has tremendous immigration gap. These are plan after plan after plan, and each plan is very simple. Overly simple. When you put them together, theyre indistinguishable.
You cant -- it becomes a maze of complexity that nobody even knows the answer to. You have people studying, where -- youre going to have a really beautiful system of immigration. People are going to be able to come into our country, be proud of our country, and help our country. We want them to help us. You know, its a two-way street; they have to help us also.
And its met with great popularity. Now, if it doesnt get passed, because we do have the Democrats -- because theyre against almost everything. Wed love to do it in a bipartisan way. Well make changes. Well do what we have to do. But if it doesnt get passed, its a campaign issue because well pass it if and when we win the Congress.
Well win the House and we should be able to keep the Senate, win the Senate, and maybe pick up some seats. And hopefully were going to keep the presidency. That, I feel very comfortable -- I feel very confident about. But I feel also very confident we have a very good chance at winning back the House.
And it may very well be an election issue, because this plan is a plan like no other. This is the best of everything all over the world. And its a very fair plan. We have to say that and stress it. Very, very fair plan. Very compassionate plan. So it could very well be something that gets done where everybody puts politics aside and they get it voted on. Or if it isnt -- you know, the election is 15 months away.
Very close. Who would have thought that? But its very close. And we will put this as a major election issue. This is what people want. They want this kind of a plan. They want the compassion but they also want a merit-based plan where people come in and can help our country. So I appreciate you seeing that.
I think what Id like to do, if I could -- ask our Secretary of State, who is doing a terrific job -- Mike Pompeo -- to give you a little update on Iran. I could possibly say a couple of things about North Korea. When I took over -- when I became President, North Korea was ready to go to war. We were, I think, headed to a war.
It would have been very quickly, too. It would have been a very bad war, a very rough war. But I believe we were headed in that one direction. There was no communication. There was no talk. There were nuclear weapons being -- and nuclear everything being tested. Constantly, wed be hearing about earthquakes.
It wasnt earthquakes; it was nuclear testing. And we were heading in a bad direction. And you saw what happened a few weeks ago when we were in South Korea, and I said, the day before -- there was no planning, no nothing -- the day before, I said, "Hey, were here. Lets say hello to Kim Jong Un." And nobody actually knew how to get in touch.
Tough people to get in touch with. But I have a very good relationship with him. And I put it out on Twitter. "Hey, Im in South Korea. You want to meet?" And we had a great meeting. It was pretty wild. Very good communication. Well see what happens. But, in the meantime, as I say, we got our hostages back.
We got the remains back, and they continue to come. We have the sanctions on in full. Were working with China. Were working with Russia on the border. And at some point -- Im in absolutely no hurry -- but at some point, I think we can probably do something that would be very good for them and very good everybody and for the world.
So weve met tremendous progress. People dont like saying that. The progress is great communication. Before, we had no communication. There was zero -- zero communication. Nobody spoke to anybody. They wouldnt know who. I do believe they tried. I do believe it never happened. I think we tried very hard to speak to them, but they werent interested in speaking.
But now theyre interested in speaking, and the relationship is very good. I think weve made tremendous progress on North Korea. And, again, time is not of the essence, but I think good things will ultimately happen. Id like to ask Mike to say a few words about Iran and what that situation is. Please.
Well, thank you very much. You know, a lot of progress has been made. And if theyd like to talk, then well see what happens. But a lot of progress has been made. Remember one thing: An agreement was made with Secretary Kerry, at the time, and with President Obama. That agreement was a disaster. They spent $150 billion; $1.8 billion was given in cash -- cash like cash from your pocket.
$1.8 billion given in cash. And we had an agreement that, number one, didnt give us good inspection rights. We were -- the places we most would want to inspect we werent allowed to inspect. We were allowed to inspect places that didnt mean anything. Number one. And I think, very importantly, and maybe most importantly, the agreement was short term.
You know, for a country, 10 years and 15 years is short term. If you sign a lease, you can a sign a 10-year lease. But for a country, thats a speck of time. And theres only a few years left now. Very short number of years left. And youre not going to go up and make a deal. This was a path for Iran to have a nuclear weapon.
They cant have a nuclear weapon. We want to help them. Well be good to them. Well work with them. Well help them in any way we can, but they cant have a nuclear weapon. Were not looking, by the way, for regime change, because some people say were looking for regime change. Were not looking for regime change.
Ive watched President Obama and many other Presidents try that. It doesnt work out too well. Were not looking for that at all. They cant have a nuclear weapon. They cant be testing ballistic missiles, which, right now, under that agreement, if they had the agreement -- which we are out of -- theyd be able to do. They cant do that.
And we want them to get out of Yemen. I asked Secretary Kerry, through people, "Why didnt you get them out of Yemen when you gave them $150 billion?" He said it was too complicated. Oh, great. So we want them to get out of Yemen. Syria is a different kind of a situation, but its all working out. We did a great job.
As Mike said, we did a great job with the caliphate. We have 100 percent of the caliphate, and were rapidly pulling out of Syria. Well be out of there pretty soon. And let them handle their own problems. Syria can handle their own problems -- along with Iran, along with Russia, along with Iraq, along with Turkey.
Were 7,000 miles away. But we did a hell of a job with the caliphate. Nobody thought that was possible. When I came in, my own generals told me it would take two years. And I said, "Really?" But then I met another general. He said, "Sir, we can do it in a month." I said, "I like you. I like you. I like you much better than some other people." And he did an unbelievable job.
They were incredible, the job they did. And we got 100 percent of the caliphate. We now have 2,000 prisoners -- ISIS prisoners. And were telling Europe, "Look, they were going to Europe." They werent coming here; they were going to Europe. "Youve got to take them." Europe doesnt want to take them because, you know, why should they?
They -- American patsies. We were patsies for so many years, but they dont want to take them. You got to take them. They were going to you. We helped you out. We did a big thing. We cant be responsible for these people for 50 years or whatever it may be, or more. And so were negotiating with Europe, and were negotiating with Iraq and lots of other peoples.
Somebody has got to do -- we have a lot of war; bad people, in many cases. Bad people, possibly in all cases. But we have about 2,000 of them, and were negotiating right now with Europe. We say, "We dont want them." "Oh, you dont want them? You wouldve had them if we didnt come along. You wouldve had them in a way that you dont want to have them." And everyone knows what I mean.
So, we werent treated very fairly by the world for the last 20, 25 years, whether its trade or the military. We protect so many countries. Some countries are unbelievably rich. They dont pay us. They never paid us. Now theyre starting to pay and theyre paying. Importantly, theyre paying a lot, and theyre appreciative of us. I actually think they like us better now than they did before because they have respect for us again.
So, I want to thank Jared. And I want to thank Ben. And I want to thank Scott, Mike, everybody. Youve been doing a fantastic job. I think Im going to finish just by asking Alex to say a few word about -- words about what were doing with prescription drug prices because its really exciting. Id also like you to discuss -- because most people have no idea that were so close -- whats happening with respect to the eradication of AIDS, which nobody wouldve thought of two years ago.
And now were really at a point where we can eradicate AIDS from the United States within 10 years. So, if you could discuss those two subjects, I would appreciate it.
Well, that was an amazing meeting we had last week on kidney disease, which I didnt know too much about. I knew it was a very big problem. Nobody knew the cost. When you say one in five, thats incredible. But I learned, and I met so many people that had the problem. And we spent a long time with you, last week, at that conference, and then we made a speech.
And one of the things I learned is that people with kidney disease, oftentimes, they die of hard work. They literally die like -- we all work hard. We work hard. I dont know, we seem to be able to handle it. But their work is much harder. And it is so hard to go through this dialysis program, that they die of exhaustion.
It is an unbelievably horrible situation. And were working on transplants. And were actually working on something -- and theres some pretty positive news: artificial kidney, which would be the ultimate answer. We think theres going to be some good news on that --
-- long before people thought. I would like you to mention, because a certain, very large pharmaceutical company -- you know, you hear very bad things about pharmaceutical companies, and I agree with that.
And -- deservedly so. But I would like you to mention the name of the company because theyre giving hundreds of millions of dollars for the HIV/AIDS, and you might mention the name.
The dollar value of that?
Its billions of dollars theyre contributing.
Its something, right? Thats really something. I want to thank you very much. I also want to thank a man who has been really an outstanding Secretary of Labor, Alex Acosta. This is your last meeting in the Cabinet Room.
And I just want to say, "Job well done." You really were -- you were absolutely terrific. Never once a problem. Always in advance of everything else, whether it was on 401s or all of the other things we worked on. You really did an outstanding job as Secretary of Labor. We -- everyone in this room, I think, we can say were going to miss you.
But well see you. But, congratulations. And a job well done.
Thank you. Great job. Thank you very much everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.
Its up to them. They can go wherever they want or they can stay. But they should love our country. They shouldnt hate our country. You look at what theyve said. I -- I have clips right here. The most vile, horrible statements about our country, about Israel, about others. Its up to them. They can do what they want.
They can leave. They can stay. But they should love our country and they should work for the good of our country. All right, thank you very much everybody.
Were talking to Turkey. Were speaking to Turkey.
Ive had a very good relationship. And, frankly, its a very complex situation. The Obama administration would not sell them the Patriot missiles. They need the Patriot missiles for defense. They would not sell them, under any circumstance. And Turkey tried very hard to buy them, and they wouldnt sell them, and this went on for a long period of time.
And it was as soon as they found out that they were going to have to buy the missiles -- a comparable missile -- not as good a missile, but a comparable, almost, missile from Russia, all of a sudden everybody started rushing and saying to Turkey, "Okay, well sell you the Patriot missile." It was only when they found out they couldnt get it, then, they say, "Lets go, well sell you the Patriot missile." But, by that time, Turkey had already signed and paid a lot of money to Russia for the missile system that they were not allowed to buy here, foolishly -- because Turkey is a NATO member.
Turkey has also ordered over a hundred F-35 planes -- substantially over a hundred -- and they have plans to order more. But because they have a system of missiles thats made in Russia, theyre now prohibited from buying over a hundred planes. I would say that Lockheed isnt exactly happy. Thats a lot of jobs.
And, frankly, Ive always had a very good relationship. We have Pastor Brunson -- came back, at my request, when I called up. Pastor Brunson was going to be in jail for 25 years. And I called President Erdogan, and I said, "Listen, hes an innocent man. Hes a pastor. Hes a religious man. Hes not a spy.
Hes not the things they said." And we had a couple of conversations, and I was able to get him back. Along with many other people, I was able to get back. The press doesnt want to write about it. Our ambassador for hostage negotiations said, "Trump is the greatest of all time." I only tell you that because youll never say it. But I guess we have 21 back.
I got 21 back. I dont pay, either -- unlike the $1.8 billion that was paid by the Obama administration to get hostages back. I dont pay because, once you pay, it doesnt work out. So what happens is we have a situation where Turkey is very good with us. Very good. And we are now telling Turkey that, because you have really been forced to buy another missile system, were not going to sell you the F-35 fighter jets.
Its a very tough situation that theyre in. And its a very tough situation that weve been placed in -- the United States. With all of that being said, were working through it. Well see what happens. But its not really fair. They wanted to buy -- I dont stick up for countries. I dont stick up for Turkey.
I dont stick up -- other than Ive had a good relationship with President Erdogan. He wanted to buy our Patriot missile. We wouldnt sell it. And then, when he made a -- and he really wanted to buy it. And then, when he made a deal with another country -- Russia -- to buy their system that he didnt even want, then, all of the sudden, we say, "Oh, okay.
Well now sell you the Patriot." And because of the fact he bought a Russian missile, were not allowed to sell him billions of dollars worth of aircraft. Its not a fair situation. Do you have something to add to that, Mike?
I think so. Good. You said the right thing.
Well, what were doing with China, first of all -- you know, Thiel is a friend of mine. Hes a tremendous contributor. Hes a big -- hes a big -- he spoke at our convention -- at the Republican National Convention. Peter is a brilliant young man -- one of the most successful people in Silicon Valley.
I guess he was an original investor in some of these biggest -- biggest companies, including Facebook, I understand. Yeah, he made a very strong charge. Hes one of the top -- maybe the top expert on all of those things. And he made a very big statement about Google. And I would like to recommend to the various agencies, including perhaps our Attorney General, who is with us, to maybe take a look.
Its a big statement, when you say that, you know, Google is involved with China in not a very positive way for our country. So I think well all look at that. I know that our other agencies will be looking at it. And well see if theres any truth to it. But thats a very big statement, made by somebody whos highly respected.
So well certainly take a look at that.
Well see what happens. We were sending hundreds of millions of dollars to -- are you talking about Guatemala and Honduras?
We were sending hundreds of millions of dollars to Guatemala and Honduras. Were not going to send it anymore. We havent been sending it for the last year because they werent doing anything for us. They were forming caravans and they were sending them up. And in those caravans, you had some very bad actors.
You had some people that were not people that we want in our country. So I realized that, when they -- in the middle of their city or towns -- when you form a caravan, if a government is at all a government, they dont have to allow that caravan to come up. So if theyre not going to play ball, thats okay with me. Were not going to play ball with them.
We dont give them any more money. Theyve been ripping us off for years. Im not a fan. So until they shape up -- now, all of the sudden, they came down, supposedly, with a Supreme Court ruling that theyre not allowed to do a Safe Third Agreement with us. Well, I sort of wonder -- did it come down because they wanted that ruling to come down?
But we were giving them hundreds of millions of dollars, like fools, for years, and all they did is send us up -- a lot of people caused a lot of problems, and a lot of the people in those caravans were criminals -- hardened criminals, dangerous people. And why not? Why would Honduras or Guatemala or El Salvador, why would they keep their criminals when you can put them into the caravan, lose them in a caravan, and send them up to the United States.
We take everybody because the Democrats dont allow immigration laws that mean anything. Its horrible. Its horrible. How they arent -- how they arent taking care of just that one situation, which could be taken care of very easily -- how they wont even give us a vote on that. Weve had many interviews of the people in those caravans.
Some of them are very bad players. You had interviews -- one of the folks that was, perhaps, in this room -- I think might be in this room -- said, "What was your crime?" And the man said, "Murder." And the reporter looks at -- "Murder?" Thats a very famous clip. She said, "Well, what was your crime?" You know, they were interviewing to show how wonderful the people are in the caravan.
And you, sir, what was your crime? "Murder." The young woman goes, "Whoa." I was surprised they didnt cut it. It must have been live, otherwise you would have cut it. It must have been a live shot. But a pretty famous shot. But you have a lot of that. And so, as far as those countries, we were supposed to have a safe third.
We didnt. Now, Mexico -- because of tariffs, but that doesnt matter because theyve really been doing a job. Theyve only had one week in June, and June was down 28 percent. One week. Two thousand soldiers, they started with. Now they have 6,000 soldiers on their southern border. You know, they used to have like three soldiers; they had nobody.
They wouldnt do it. For 45 years, 50 years, people have tried. In the State Department, one of Mikes people said -- the woman that we respect, whos been in charge of Mexico for 20 years -- she laughed when we said we were going to ask for these things. She said, "Theyve been trying to get" -- she was there for 20 years.
But theyve been trying to get it for 45 or 50 years, the things that I asked for. And they all laughed. I got it done in one day. Because I said, "If you dont do it, were going to put tariffs on." And every car that comes through, that used to be made in the United States, now Mexico has 30 percent of our car business.
But thats not going to happen anymore. No more -- no more companies are going to leave because we have reasons that they cant leave anymore. Theres just no reason for them to leave anymore. In fact, just the opposite: Theyre all coming back. But now we have 21,000 soldiers -- 6,000 on the Guatemala border, and -- which is, you know -- obviously, that makes the safe third, John, much less important.
You understand. Its very hard to get from Guatemala to the United States. And well have about 16,000 or so -- maybe more -- on our southern border. And were using the Mexican immigration laws, because thats Mexico. And those laws say you can actually tell a person, "Im sorry. You cant come in. Get out." Or they can take them back to a point of origin.
So were doing very well, but we have no help whatsoever from the Democrats -- just the opposite. They want open borders. They obviously dont mind crime and drugs and human trafficking, which is a tremendous problem. And its human trafficking mostly in women. And, you know, Democrats, with their big, wonderful hearts -- human trafficking with women -- where three, four, five women are put in the back of a van or the back of a car, and they go through areas where there will soon be wall, but theres no wall right now.
Because you cant, obviously, come through ports of entry. But were really doing well on the border, considering we have absolutely no help from the Democrats. And not only no help; its just the opposite. Now, we won a big lawsuit against Nancy Pelosi and Congress, having to do with the wall. You saw that two weeks ago.
But we also have one that were appealing to the Supreme Court. I think it was just put into the Supreme Court. And I hope were going to be successful on that. But were building a lot of wall right now. But its being met with force. Theres no question about it. The Democrats are fighting us on a wall so people can come through.
But now, whats happening with Mexico -- 21,000 soldiers -- were hearing that even the cartels are saying, "Wow. This is hard to get through." Because the cartels were bringing tremendous numbers of people into our country, through diversion and other tactics, and money. So were doing well on the border, considering we have no help.
I think were doing well, even if we did have help. And I want to thank Mexico, because they really have gone above and beyond -- I think beyond, Mike, what we thought. We didnt ever expect 21,000 soldiers. We expected a smaller number than that. And, at the same time, theyre helping themselves a lot because they were having a lot of crime.
And the border was really -- the borders were run by the cartels. And Mexico is taking back its country. And I give the President a tremendous amount of credit for that because thats been going on for a long time. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
Were doing well with China, but you will see whether or not we have a -- were talking to China about a deal. Well see what happens. But were doing very well economically because theyre paying us billions and billions and billions of dollars.
I think its terrible when people speak so badly about our country, when people speak so horribly. I have a list of things here. Im not going to bore you with it because you would be bored. You wouldnt write it anyway. But I have a list of things here said by the congresswomen that is so bad, so horrible, that I almost dont want to read it. Its so bad.
I think what you do is you have the same list that I do. You should repeat some of that. When the Democrats didnt want to mention the name of the congresswoman, not so long ago -- and what they did and the way theyre treating Israel is a disgrace. But not only Israel; its what they say about our country.
Its my opinion they hate our country. And thats not good. Its not acceptable. Thank you very much everybody.
