Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Meets With Conservative Leaders on Immigration|January 23, 2019
So, thank you all very much -- very much for being here. And a lot of friends in the room. A lot of great friends. And, Mr. Vice President, thank you. And, Secretary Nielsen, thank you very much. Were doing a great job on the border, considering we dont have the tools. They dont give us the tools to work with, meaning we have to have a wall.
We have to have a barricade of some kind -- a steel barricade. Its already designed. Were building a lot of wall as we speak -- a tremendous amount. And were renovating a lot of the other wall. Otherwise -- by the way, with whats coming up, because of the strong economy that we have -- we havent had an economy like this, I guess, in over 50 years.
Would you say thats correct, Steve? And because of the strong economy, everyone is pouring up, and were stopping them. But its a lot of work. We have incredible people at the border, and you have to thank all of the Border Patrol agents and the ICE agents I see in Long Island. They dont want ICE. The radical Democrats dont want ICE there because theyre too good; theyre doing too good a job.
And I always talk about Long Island; thats one of the real hotbeds for the MS-13 gangs. And I just see this morning, where the, really, radical Democrats dont want them there because they dont want to do anything to disturb MS-13. And when you think about it, MS-13 is about the most violent gang, they say; one of the most violent anywhere in the world.
And they have done -- were sending them out by the thousands out of our country. So we think its too bad. But I would say this: That the State of the Union speech has been cancelled by Nancy Pelosi because she doesnt want to hear the truth. She doesnt want the American public to hear whats going on. And shes afraid of the truth.
And the super-left Democrats, the radical Democrats -- whats going on in that Party is shocking. I know many people that were Democrats and theyre switching over right now, and theyre switching over quickly. So I hope they know what theyre doing for their Party. So far, they havent. If you know, I won the Senate -- meaning we won the Senate altogether -- but we get no credit for that.
They dont talk about that. They talk about the House. I didnt have any chance to -- other than a couple of people, like from Kentucky, where I went and campaigned for Andy Barr and for some others, they ended up winning their races. But I couldnt campaign too much. Too many people. But we did a great job with the Senate, and people dont want to talk about it. I will say that the American people want to hear the truth.
They have to hear the truth. And the truth is all about -- and said, I think and I hope, well -- we were planning on doing a really very important speech in front of the House and the Senate, the Supreme Court, and everybody else thats there. Its called the State of the Union. Its in the Constitution.
Were supposed to be doing it. And now, Nancy Pelosi -- or "Nancy," as I call her -- she doesnt want to hear the truth, and she doesnt want to hear -- more importantly, the American people hear the truth. So we just found out that shes cancelled it, and I think thats a great blotch on the incredible country that we all love.
Its a great, great, horrible mark. I dont believe its ever happened before, and its always good to be part of history. But this is a very negative part of history. This is where people are afraid to open up and say whats going on. So its a very, very negative part of history. Id like to start today -- were talking about shutdown; were talking about some conservative values.
These are the great conservative leaders of our country, and they have very strong views. And well be doing that after the press leaves. But they have very strong views on the shutdown. And its not that we have a choice. I dont think we have a choice. We have to make our country safe. We have done such an incredible job with such poor tools.
We have catch-and-release, where you catch somebody and then you have to release that person into our country. We have so many different elements of rule and regulation. Its a very sad thing thats gone on. And this has happened over a long period of time. If you take a look at the visa lottery -- when theres a lottery, do you think theyre putting their best people into those lotteries?
Its a lottery. You know what a lottery is. Does anybody think theyre putting their best people in? You have chain migration, where, as an example, the killer -- the man who ran over people on the West Side Highway in New York -- 8 people killed, 12 injured. And when you say "12 injured," nobody knows how badly injured they are.
This isnt like they had a headache. This is big, big, and horrible problems. Loss of legs and arms, and worse. And this man brought in many people -- many, many people -- through chain migration, its called. So these are all Democrat principles that are no good for our country; theyre hurting our country.
And if we did what we had to do, you would bring crime down in half in our country, because so much of it comes through our southern border. Honduras is doing nothing for us. Guatemala is doing nothing for us. El Salvador is doing nothing for us. And we pay them hundreds of millions of dollars a year, but were going to be stopping pretty soon.
In fact, were looking at it right now. We dont want to do it. Because when caravans form in the middle of a country, the country can very easily stop those caravans from forming, very easily. I actually think they encourage the caravans because they want to get rid of the people from their country, and certain people.
A lot of gang members are there. In the last caravan, we had 618 people with criminal records, and some of them very serious records. I wont soon forget the man that was interviewed where he wanted some kind of pardon, or whatever, when he came into the country. And the network person said, "Well, what did you do?" And he said "murder" or something to that effect.
And she goes, "Whoa, murder." Well, we have -- thats what we have. We have a lot of very dangerous people that want to come into our country. And were not letting them in. We want people to come in based on merit. We want people to come in that can help us successfully run all these companies that are pouring into the United States because of what weve done and because of all of the incentives, Steve, that weve given, and because this is where the action is. Steve Moore is one of the great financial gurus, and he would tell you how well were doing as a country.
But we have a lot of people that, really, we need. We have the lowest unemployment rate weve had in much more than 50 years, with African American, with Asian American, with Hispanic American. We have the lowest unemployment rate weve had in the history of our country. And thats why, when you look at the Hispanic polls, Im up 19 percent.
And the reason Im up 19 percent -- I dont even think its the unemployment; I think its the fact that they understand, better than anybody, whats going on at the border. And they say that President Trump is the only one thats saying it right, and hes doing what you have to. Thats why people were so surprised when they saw the poll that just came out, where Im up to 50 percent with the Hispanic and up 19 points in a short period of time.
Because they get it better than anybody at the border. They know whats happening at the border and they know its a big scam. And the Democrats dont want to stop people. That means automatically massive amounts of crime. And were not going to put up with it. So Nancy Pelosi, knowing these facts, and knowing its something that she cant win, that she just went out and said, lets cancel -- for the first time in the history of our country -- "Lets cancel the State of the Union Address." And its a disgrace.
Just so you know, she uses on the basis of the shutdown. But when she asked me to make the address -- formally, in writing; most of you have a copy of the letter -- when she asked me to make the address, she did it during the shutdown -- well into the shutdown, by a couple of weeks. So the shutdown was going on. Now shes blaming the shutdown.
So if it was because of the shutdown, why do you ask that the address be made? And she asked that the address be made during a shutdown, and now shes blaming the shutdown. She also knew -- because she went to our people and she asked, "Would it be a security problem?" She knew it wasnt a security problem.
She blamed security, but she knew it wasnt a security problem, and she knew that loud and clear. And she went to the people. She asked. They said, "We have no problem whatsoever." I just got back from Iraq. I was very safe in Iraq, and I felt very safe. We had great, great security. If we can handle Iraq, we can handle the middle of Washington in a very, very spectacular building, and a beautiful room that we should be in, and thats where its been for a very long time.
So its a sad thing for our country. Well do something in the alternative. Well be talking to you about that at a later date. But I have to say, its an honor to have these great leaders with us, and were going to be talking about shutdown. Were going to be talking about other things. And were going to be talking about -- outside of this event that we just discussed -- how well our country is doing, because were setting records in so many different ways.
Were setting jobs records. Right now, at this very moment, we have more people working in the United States than at any time in the history of our country. Think of that. Thats a big, big statement. I just had a meeting on drug pricing and various other things. And prescription drugs, for the first time in history -- the history of our country -- have gone down in 2018. So for last year -- just got the numbers -- for the first time in the history of our country, prescription drug prices have gone down.
Theyve been like a rocket ship until I got here. And we have more to do. Theyre going to go down further. But think of that: For the first time -- I say it because you guys dont want to report it, but thats a big thing, because drug pricing has been very important to me, as is healthcare. First time in the history of our country, in 2018, prescription drug prices have gone down.
Thats a big number. And you didnt even know that. I dont think anybody at this table knew that. It just came out. So well let you know. So its too bad with Nancy Pelosi, what shes done. Its radical Democrats. Theyve become a radicalized party. They really have. They have become a radicalized party.
I actually think theyve become a very dangerous party for this country. If you listen to what theyre saying, what theyre doing, I think theyve become a very dangerous -- a very, very dangerous party for this country. I think that Chuck Schumer, sadly, is dominated by the radical left, and he is dominated by Nancy Pelosi.
Very strongly dominated. He cant move; hes a puppet. Hes a puppet for Nancy Pelosi, if you can believe that. But thats whats become and thats whats happening. And were not going to let it happen to our nation, and we are not going to allow the radical left to control our borders. Because if they do, you will see crime; you will see drugs; you will see human trafficking like you have never seen ever in the history of our country.
You will never see anything like what you would see. So we will never let the radical left control our borders. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Well be announcing what were doing.
Well see. Well see. Well, it wouldnt be very hard, but thats not what she means. And its very sad. I think its a very, very bad thing for our country, and its a horrible precedent. And we have many positive things to say, but we also have things that we want to turn into positives that are big negatives.
The southern border is a very, very big deal. It shouldve been handled by other Presidents for many times, just like Israel with the -- if you look, moving the embassy to Jerusalem. Every President talked about it; nobody did it until I came along. Same thing in a certain, different way with the southern border.
It shouldve been stopped a long time ago. They talked about it. They had approvals for doing it, and they were unable to pull it off. Other Presidents shouldve done this. Were going to do it. And its not because I want to, its because I have no choice. Because if we dont do it, this country is going to be worse than any -- at any time in our history in terms of drug infestation and in terms of crime.
And our crime numbers are really good, but our crime numbers would be very much better if we had a stopped-up southern border. And, by the way, the caravan now, theyre saying, is massive. The caravan thats coming up. Thank you very much, Honduras. We send Honduras hundreds of millions of dollars, and they send us caravans.
The three of those countries. And, you know, as I said, were probably going to be stopping that. Were working on that right now. I would stop it. Because, you know, you have two theories: You can give more and let them do economic development, or you can do less. Im of the less theory. I dont think we should give anything to them.
And weve done this with numerous countries over the world where theyre not treating us right. We have countries that get hundreds of millions of dollars -- they dont even vote for us at the United Nations, until we say were not going to pay you anymore, and then they immediately vote for us. So, you know, but thats not a -- I dont call that a vote.
