Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in St. Clairsville, OH|June 28, 2016
I want to thank everybody. You know, I worked in Cincinnati Ohio. I had a job with my father. It came and it was very successful very, very, early in my career. It gave me a lot of confidence. And if I didnt have that confidence, who knew? Maybe I wouldnt be here with you tonight. Believe me. So I love Ohio.
I love the state. I love the people. Jack Nicklaus is a great, great friend of mine. What are you great trip? I mean, is there a champion like Jack, right? Is there a champion? And we have, we have so many. You know, I wanted to talk to you about a few things. And then as you know, we had another suicide bombing.
Istanbul, Turkey. Many, many people killed. Many, many people injured. Folks, theres something going on thats really, really bad. All right? Its bad and we better get smart and we better get tough. Were not going to have much of a country left, OK. Its bad. Terrible. So, I just left West Virginia and I was with a group.
Whoah! I didnt expect that. Thats pretty good. Thats a big. Whos from West Virginia? Wow! Well you know, in the primaries, we won West Virginia by like 25 points. It was a wipeout. I think I just saw a poll that were 25 or 28 up, so I never, I mean never go back to West Virginia. What do I need? I mean give me a break.
No, Ill be back. I just left West Virginia. Some great people. Bob Murray and I left a lot of miners. And a lot of miners that Hillary Clinton said, shes going to put out of business with the mines. Not going to happen. These are amazing people. And its not going to happen. Remember her statement a few months ago, right?
In fact, were going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business, OK. Forget it. And shes talking about steel companies and shes talking about plenty of other companies too. Because ultimately, thats what is going to happen. So, I made a speech this morning in Pittsburgh. Im all over the place, OK. Im all over.
The Pittsburgh area, amazing people, amazing people. And it was a well-received speech. And I talked about some different things about what were going to do if and when, when, when, when we get in there. And were going to put our country back to work. Were going to get jobs for people that dont have jobs right now, of which there are many, many millions of people.
They dont have jobs. Its just like, unbelievable. Whats happening? Were letting our jobs go to Mexico. Were letting our jobs go to many other places all over the world. China and so many other countries, not just China by the way, China is the No. 1 abuser, because theyre the biggest. But everybody, everybody is treating our jobs and our politicians, theyre just not treating us right, folks.
They dont respect us. And I will tell you this. If I win, theyre going to respect our country again. Just remember that. Just remember that. Thank you, man. So I thought Id say, because in the speech today, I will talk about different things. But in this speech today, I gave certain points. But before that, what I do is, I like to find out from an area like St. Clairsville.
How are you doing, right? Right? And by the way, I have to thank your congressman who is a great guy and doing an incredible job for you. Lets give him a little applause. Hes done great. So, I checked and I said, Come on folks. Whats going on over here, right? So the labor force, I have people that do this for me professionally.
They go to the right books. They get the right numbers. Unfortunately, rarely are the numbers good. And Ive done these many times. You know, in the primaries, we had such great, a streak like nobodys had. We got the most number of votes in the history of the Republican primary system. Think of that. Almost 14 million votes.
And think of it. There were 17 people involved. So how do you -- how do you beat other people? They were running against two people in one. So, we had almost 17, we had 17 people and we had almost 14 million votes. We won 37 states. And theres really probably never been anything like that. And its because of the people.
We have a movement going on, folks. And Im the messenger. Im nothing. Believe me, Im nothing more. Im doing a good job as the messenger, right? Thats one point. Im doing a good job. Im doing a good job as a messenger. Yeah, we have crowds. We have turnouts. And here we started a half hour early because look, the people are still pouring in. Look at those people.
I hope you havent missed too much. But I said, lets start early. Do you agree? What the heck? Theyre all coming in. Theyre outside going, through the machines. You know the machine. So anyway, so I check this out. The labor force in Ohio today is smaller than it was in the year 2000. And the number of unemployed people is larger.
Thats not so great, federal government. Ohio has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed an agreement to put China into the World Trade Organization. Not good. He also signed NAFTA which was a total disaster, right? NAFTA -- NAFTA has done more to destroy your community than any other single Act.
It was signed by Bill Clinton plus one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed an agreement to put China into the World Trade Organization. Not good. He also signed NAFTA, which was a total disaster, right? NAFTA, NAFTA has done more to destroy your community than any other single act. It was signed by Bill Clinton.
And I assume Hillary was there watching over him, right? Somewhere pretty close. Hillary supported Chinas entry into the World Trade Organization and also ran up $1 trillion in trade deficits with China, when she was secretary of state. Not too good. Why would she? I mean, you think she looks presidential?
I dont. All the while, the government of China was paying Bill a lot of money to make speeches. Not, I mean, is that a conflict or what? St. Clairsville region, if you think it is, has lost half of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA in 1994, which Hillary also supported, right? So, by the way, NAFTA was one of the worst -- maybe the worst agreement in the history of this country in terms of trade, in terms of losing our manufacturing, OK? WTO was bad, NAFTA was a disaster.
Since 2000 median household income in Ohio has declined by $9,000. Since 2000 the number of people on food stamps in Ohio has nearly tripled. One in four children in Ohio is living in poverty, OK, living in poverty. Many people in Ohio have been severely victimized by illegal immigrants. You know that, right?
Well were going to build the wall. Dont worry. Were going to build one. Were going to build a wall. Were going to build a wall. Its going to go up. Its going to go up so fast. Its going to be as beautiful as a wall can be. Its going to be a big wall. Its going to be a wall that works. Its going to be a wall that works.
See the height of that ceiling? We may top it by a little, but that is a pretty high ceiling. Once they get up there, theyre not going to want to come down. That I can tell. For example, recently in Lake County, an illegal immigrant was indicted on 16 counts including murder and attempted rape. That illegal immigrant had been previously released through Obamas non-enforcement policies.
Went on a rampage. Went on a rampage, right? From 2013 to 2014, the number of drug-related overdose deaths in Ohio increased by nearly 20%. So, look folks, we need the wall. We need to stop illegal immigration. We will stop it. Were not going to have drugs pouring into our country and destroying our youth and others, by the way.
Were going to make our country strong again. Were going to make our country rich again. Were going to make our country great again. Were not going to let our jobs get taken away. I see Hillary Clinton the other day. I dont like Donald Trumps temperament. And I was thinking, you know, maybe I was thinking, maybe I should actually have a very nice temperament and I do. I do. I get along.
I have great relationships. I have, I get along great. But you know what, its time in our country that we had somebody with a strong temperament. I hate to say it. Its time. Its really time. Its really time. Were watching crime after crime, problem after problem. Were watching all of this stuff that happens.
We dont have victories anymore. We dont win anymore. We used to win. You know, when I was young, I was going to school. I always used to hear the United States never lost. We never lost. We never lost. We never lost a war. I guess things didnt work out so great. Theres always problems. But we didnt lose wars.
And since, like Vietnam, we dont win anymore. And we dont even fight to win. I said, Keep the oil. You going to leave like, dont, dont go into Iraq. But if youre going into Iraq, keep the oil when you leave. I said it. Keep the oil. They dont listen. And I said it loud. You all heard it. For years, Ive been saying it. Well, you know, whos got the oil now?
Iran is going to have it. ISIS has it at least temporarily before they get blown away. Now if I get in theyll get blown away by me. And you know, a friend of mine has a son. And hes been over in Iraq long time actually, and a great person, great citizen of our country. A great patriot. And I spoke to him not so long ago, and I said, How do you feel?
He said, Mr. Trump, its so discouraging when were fighting enemy and even our so-called allies. And he doesnt even know if theyre our allies. Were giving them this incredible equipment and a shot gets fired in the air, and they drop their rifles, they drop their guns, they leave their Humvees that are all armor plated, and they run for the hills.
And the enemy takes it over and we fight an enemy with better equipment than we have. Their equipment is newer and better than what we have. And its very, very sad to see whats going on. But I will tell you, I want to get back to rebuilding the United States, rebuilding the infrastructure. But before we do that we have to take care of the ISIS situation.
And Ill tell you, they are spreading. They are spreading like wildfire. ISIS is spreading. ISIS is getting our youth, getting people from various countries, many countries. They use the Internet better than we do. Theyre converting people to join ISIS. And you know why? Because these young impressionable people, they see whats going on and they see the way ISIS is treating us. And they say, Wow isnt that wonderful?
Thats who I want to be with. We have to, we have to do things where they dont feel so good about themselves anymore folks. All right? We dont feel, we have. You look at the, you look at what happens. You remember when I got in some trouble where I talked about waterboarding. They asked me a question. They started off, they asked Ted Cruz a question.
He rightfully didnt want to get into it and he was a little bit, you know like, Dont ask me what. Dont ask me about waterboarding. Well they asked me the question. I said, Ill answer that question. They said, What do you think about waterboarding? I said, I like it a lot. I dont think its tough enough.
You know, you know we have an enemy thats chopping off peoples heads. Christians in particular. Do you know, if you are a Christian and I have tremendous evangelical support, I think you all know that. But if you are a Christian, if you are a Christian from Syria, it was one of the hardest places in the world to come into the United States.
In other words, if you were a Christian from Syria, very likely going to be just horribly treated including the ultimate treatment which is having your head chopped off. It was one of the hardest things you could do was to get into the United States. If you were a Muslim from Syria, it was one of the easier places to come into the United States from.
And Im not saying one or the other. Im saying how unfair is that. How bad is that. So, we have people chopping off heads and drowning 30, 40, 50 people at a time in steel cages, right? Nobodys ever seen this before. This is like from the Middle Ages. This is, nobodys seen this. When you see a few years ago, it began, right, with a wonderful young man whose parents I know.
It began and nobody saw that. You know, you didnt, you people get shot, people get wounded, people get hurt. Its war, but nobody saw the chopping off of heads. And now you see 40 and 50 at a time on the beach, in the, in the orange uniforms. And you see things happening that you havent seen it. Its like medieval times.
Were living in medieval times. We have to stop it. We have to be so strong. We have to fight so viciously and violently because were dealing with violent people, vicious people. When I made this tape. And, and you know we have laws to uphold. We have laws. They dont have laws. You think they go back? Look, we have laws and the laws say you cant do this, you cant do that.
Cant do a lot, right? They also say you can do anything you want and the more vicious you are, the better. So, we cant do waterboarding, which is, its not the nicest thing but its peanuts compared to many alternatives, right? So, we cant do waterboarding, but they can do chopping off heads, drowning people in steel cage as they can do whatever they want to do. And you know, they eat dinner like us. Can you imagine them?
Sitting around the table or wherever theyre reading their dinner talking about the Americans dont do waterboarding and yet we chop off heads. They probably think were weak, were stupid. We dont know what were doing. We have no leadership. You know you have to fight fire with fire. We have people out there.
We have people out there who are so vicious and smart. So vicious and they really dont know what it is to be beaten. They probably dont even understand. Its probably 30, 35,000 people and they dont understand themselves. Theyre beating the United States of America and theyre making things impossible.
Theyre knocking out airplanes and doing things that are incredible. They probably dont understand themselves. How they getting away with it? Well let me just tell you something. If Im president theyre not going to get away with it. Theyre not going to get away with it. Now, people like Hillary Clinton will say, Oh hes temperament.
I know at one point youre saying, I dont like his tone. Folks, folks I have a very nice tone. Look, Im a nice person. Im a nice person. And by the way, the migration. You see whats happening? Theyre not coming into our country anymore just so you understand. Were not allowing thousands and thousands of people are being brought into our country.
Theres no documentation, theres no paperwork. Hillary Clinton wants to raise Obamas number by 550%. You know, its very interesting because I was saying 500%. They said, Donald Trump is wrong. Its actually 550. They were correcting the media, by the way, the most dishonest human beings in the entire world.
You know, I had a poll the other day, from one of the most dishonest newspapers Ive ever seen, The Washington Post. They -- listen, totally dishonest. They polled far more Democrats than Republicans. I mean, what kind of policies? And even people that were on the other side said, Thats not a very good poll.
But you know, today in the Wall Street Journal, I think today when everybodys running I believe there was a one-point spread. Now think of this. Ive spent no money and were raising a lot of money. Were raising a lot of money. Doesnt mean we have to spend it now but were raising a lot of money. People going to be very impressed.
But Ive spent no money, literally none. I spent, I think nothing on it. Hilary I heard 68 million. I heard 78 million and I heard almost a hundred million. I heard these massive numbers, you know, in negative ads which are largely untrue. Ill give you an example. My son Eric Trump and Don Trump is here.
Wheres Don? Come on, get Don over here. Got to get, got to get our boys out here. Doing a good job.
No pressure, right? No pressure. Well, yeah. Thank you, guys, very much. Just listening and getting the opportunity, the amazing opportunity to go all around the country following my father on this amazing journey. And its, its been incredible. Its really, its no longer a campaign. Its a mandate from the people to do something different.
Its a movement. And I want to thank you for all the incredible support that you guys have given him, for giving you guys a voice and thats what it is. Hes finally giving the hardworking people of this country who have been left in the dust. The people who have been forgotten about by the Washington elites.
Hes giving you all a voice again because your voice matters. Your voice is what built this country. Your hard work and efforts are what made this country what it is. And were going to make sure that you have the ability to have that voice again. So, thank you so much for letting me be a just a small part of this incredible mission because it is just that and were going to make you proud.
Thank you.
Thank you, Don. Thank you. So, shes spending money like, like Ive never seen before. And I figured with such spending it after the convention, which is going to be a tremendous success. The convention so many people want to speak. So, were going to see something. I think were going to have some. Were going to have a great time.
More importantly, were going to say exactly what were going to do. But what happened? So, I said, you know we have to support our children. Do we agree? Right? We all have great children. We have to support them. So, I bought something in Scotland, Turnberry, one of the great resorts of the world. And my son Eric Trump who youve seen on television, but hes worked very hard on getting it done and getting it. We rebuilt it on budget.
Remember that. On budget ahead of schedule. How good is that, right? Wouldnt that be nice? I could even say under budget. But I decided to use marble instead of linoleum, right? On budget and ahead of schedule by a lot. So, we had a grand opening and I said to myself, I have to go and support my son. I have to go see it even though Im on the campaign trail.
And the fair press will say hes there for one day to support. Now Im going to Europe, Scotland for one day. I left here. I spent one night and then I left the following day, right? Because I was there to cut the ribbon with my son. Because we owe that to our children and one of the things I tell fathers is, We gotta do, we gotta do. So, a couple of things, you know, theyre talking about the pound and I give them an answer on the pound that ends up in a commercial.
Somebody asked me about the pound. I give my answer at the pound. Sounds like I care about the pound. No, I care about our country. But heres really what they did that was, that was amazing. I said to everybody, because I played very little golf over the last year. Believe me, very little unlike our president whos playing like a PGA Tour schedule.
I think he plays more golf than the players on the PGA Tour. OK, but I said to my people. Im going to go. Im going to support my son. Im leaving. I do not want to play golf as much as I want to play Turnberry. I do not want to play golf. I do not want to hold a golf club because I do not want to see the dishonest media portray me as somebody that was going over to play golf, OK, in the middle of a campaign.
But I wanted to support my son, Eric. And by the way, he did an A+ job. It was great. So, I go over. We have a news conference. We do a ribbon cutting. I stop at another place for a little while. The next morning, the next day I leave. I literally spend one night. And you have not too many people do that.
You go to Europe, long flight. You come back. I was back on Saturday evening. That you know because at times a lot different. I think I left on Thursday, a Friday. I think I left on Friday. I got back on Saturday, some weird thing. But I was there for very -- so Hillary, you know, she got all this money from Wall Street.
So, she takes a course and you have to understand I didnt touch a club. I didnt hit. I didnt go play. I would have loved to, but I didnt. No time, but I didnt want the image of playing. So, she takes a commercial and she has me swinging. Not a bit swing, by the way. That was a good thing. They should have at least shown me with a bad swing.
But they. Did you see that commercial where Im hitting a golf ball? Well, that was two years before that was taken at a different place. So, Don -- shes crooked. Thats why we call her crooked Hillary. Thank you. Thank you. I didnt say it. Now think of it. So here I tell my people I do not want to touch a golf club.
I will not play and Im in a commercial hitting a golf ball. But the picture was taken from two years before. It is such a disgrace. What goes on in the world of politics? The dishonesty, the deception. It is such a total disgrace. Were going to straighten it out folks. Were going to straighten it out.
And let me tell you, Hillary Clinton is owned by Wall Street. Shes owned by many people. All of the money, like she wants to take these cameras. She spent tens of millions of dollars already. How about this? She spends millions and millions and millions of dollars already on me. Right? Because you know, everyone is pouring in because of, mostly because of influence, because they want influence.
With me they know they dont have too much influence. You know what, Im doing well in the small donations. Where do you see the small donations? Im doing great, donaldjtrump.com. The small donations. But, but Hillary is never going to bring your jobs back, folks. Shes never going to bring your jobs. Self again.
Married to the man that signed NAFTA. One of the all-time worst, right? Shes not bringing your jobs back. She doesnt even know about bringing jobs. And Ill be honest with you. Shes so overrated. Shes so totally overrated. If, if she wanted to bring your jobs back, she couldnt. If she wanted to, if she really tried and really, really wanted to. Forget the fact that shes bought and owned by so many different people.
If she really wanted to bring those jobs back. Shes so overrated. She couldnt do it anyway. So, let me just tell you, I just did this at a big speech and I have to read it because I liked it. I think its you know, seven steps. We like it. Its going to happen fast. If I win, if I win. When, where. Thank you.
But Im going to withdraw the United States from the trans-Pacific partnership which has not yet been ratified. So, the trans-Pacific partnership is another disaster done and pushed by special interests who want to rape our country. Just a continuing rape of our country. Thats what it is too. Its a harsh word.
Its a rape of our country. This is done by wealthy people that want to take advantage of us and that want to sign another partnership. So, Hillary Clinton not so long ago said, This is the gold standard of trade pacts, the gold standard. And shes down to saying this is the gold standard. In fact, I saw it on television this morning.
The gold standard. Then when I got involved and I started pointing out all the flaws. Especially the fact that monetary manipulation, currency manipulation, which is a primary tool that other countries use, especially China to destroy our companies and to take our business. OK. Its not properly addressed and practically not even discussed at all in this.
Thats not the only reason. There are many reasons. No. 1, I want to make individual deals with individual countries. I dont need to have massive that you cant get out of. Six thousand pages, our people probably never even read it. And these other countries they know every word, every comma, every paragraph, every sentence.
And our people, I just know our people. I remember with Obamacare. Remember they went to all the congressmen. No, no remember we got to repeal it and replace it. Dont worry. Its a disaster. But do you remember when they talked to people about who read it? And its massive. Its thousands of pages. Who read it? Nobody.
Nobody. It was that fraud that said he defrauded all the people. Do you remember the guy? Everybody forgot about him. The one that wrote it and then he had a moment of jolliness where he thought he was with friends or something. And he started saying, What a joke. But we have a trans-Pacific partnership that Hillary Clinton will sign, 100%, OK 100%. But because of me, just like I shamed her into using the term radical Islamic terrorism.
Remember she wouldnt use it because Obama wouldnt use it and she didnt want -- she does not want to do anything to defend him or offend him. If she offends Obama, too risky for her, OK. So, she doesnt want to do that. So, shell use the term now because I shamed her into it. Well I shamed her into turning against these so-called gold standards.
Its not the gold standard. Its going to be worse than after folks. Its going to suck your jobs and your industry away what we have left of it. Its a disaster. So just remember that. She will sign it 100%. She wanted it. She considered the greatest. Then she said, Oh no Im not going to sign it. But shell sign it. Shell make a couple of little amendments that dont mean anything, and shell sign it. And there goes the rest of our jobs.
Im going to appoint the toughest and smartest trade negotiators to fight on behalf of the American workers. OK? They will do it. We have the best. We have the best in the world. We use political hacks to make the biggest deals ever, bigger than company deals. When you see IBM and all of these companies making deals, this stuff is much bigger.
And we have political hacks representing us. Im going to direct the secretary of commerce immediately to identify every violation or trade agreement, every trade agreement thats been violated which is about all of them. Im going to have them, every single trade agreement of a foreign country, is currently using and harming our workers.
What were doing is we have trade agreements that truly are so one sided. That they are now harming and really hurting our workers. Then Im going to direct, totally direct them to go after these to file complaints. You know, there is a way with the appropriate agencies and use every tool. And we have many of them, but we dont use them.
And the reason we dont use them? Special interests dont want you to use them under the American International law to end these abuses of these trade agreements. Itll end folks. Believe me. And itll end fast. This is what Ohios going to like a lot. Im going to tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement to get a better deal for our workers.
And I dont mean just a little bit Better! I mean so much better that you will not even believe it, OK. Then Im going to submit a notice under Article 2205 of the NAFTA agreement that American tends to withdraw from the deal if they dont come through for us. So, well withdraw if they dont make the deal for us. Im going to instruct my Treasury Secretary who will be a very good one, I already have an idea who its going to be, to label China a currency manipulator.
Now Ive been saying this for years. Everybody knows thats what theyre doing. We make better products than they do but we never get a chance to show it because they manipulate their currencies. Theyre grand chess masters, folks and we do nothing about it. Im not even sure if our country knows whats going on. Ill be honest.
But the reason we do nothing is because of the special interest, the lobbyists. They have our people totally taken care of. Any country that devalues their currency in order to take advantage of the United States and its workers will be met very, very sharply. And that includes tariffs and taxes for their goods coming into the country, OK? Number six.
Got to do it. Why wouldnt we do it? Why wouldnt we do it? And Im a free trader just so you understand. But were being taken advantage of by everybody. Got to do it. Every time China, you know they go 7%, 8%, and its like a disaster. You know we have with GDP, we have right now. Right now, zero. A little more than zero.
If China goes to 7%, its like a national catastrophe. Were like the dummies. Were going to be up to a very high level and were going to be up to that level fairly soon if I win. Believe me. Im going to instruct the United States trade representatives to bring trade cases against China both in this country and at the World Trade Organization where youre allowed to do it. We never do it. Were being manhandled, and we never do anything.
Now its not only China. Its everyone. China is the No. 1 abuser but its everyone. Chinas unfair subsidy behavior, and thats what it is, its a subsidy behavior, is prohibited by the terms of its entrance to the World Trade Organization. And I intend to enforce those rules the way they were intended to be enforced.
Thats all. And by the way, China will like us better than they like us now. Theyll respect us. And its probable that we wont even have to do it because they know Im not playing games. They know Im not playing games. I probably wont even have to do it. Heres China rip so, so off, left and right. And what are they doing?
Theyre building a massive military fortress which theyre not allowed to do in the middle of the South China Sea. So, they are making unbelievable deals with us. We have a trade deficit with China of almost $500 billion a year. How do we continue to do this? Not going to happen any longer, folks. Not going to happen any longer.
Number seven, number seven. If China does not stop its illegal activities, which is illegal, including its theft of American trade secrets, I will use every lawful presidential power to remedy trade disputes. Very simple not complicated. And theyll, you watch what happens. Including the application of tariffs consistent with Section 2, a one in three or one of the Trade Act of 1974. Theyre right there.
First to use. No big deal. And Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. Now when you hear the term trade expansion or Trade Expansion Act. Not expansion for us, its expansion for these other countries that have taken advantage. Because when I come here I go throughout Ohio. I go throughout Pennsylvania.
I go throughout New York State. I go all throughout New England. Theres no expansion. Were getting the hell beat out of us. And its going to stop. And were going to bring our jobs back to this country. Were going to make product again. Were going to lift our wages. You know, we havent had middle income workers.
Havent had a real wage increase in 18 years. Think of it. Theyre working longer. Anybody in this category? Anybody? You want a job? Ill give you a, Ill give you a 10% less. We havent had, I mean seriously, we havent had an effective increase in wages, in real wages in 18 years. Statistic. And people now having to work because of Obamacare to a certain extent, because of the economy.
And they have that phony number, the 5% number. Its a total phony because when you stop looking for a job, youre no longer unemployed. So, you come off the rolls, so they come up with these phony numbers. We have so much unemployment. And even the other side admits that the employment that we do have is not good jobs.
Theyre not good jobs. The good jobs are gone. A lot of them, theyre gone. And theyre going and going and going. Ill give you the example, youve heard me talk about it is, Carrier in Indiana. They fired 1,400 great people. I won the state of Indiana. Bobby Knight helped, the greatest. Bobby Knight, great coach.
But I won the state of Indiana and Kerry gets fired a little bit before. And there are 1,400 workers that were there. Some were there for 25, 30 years, 14 years, 18 years. They all followed me. Theyre great guys, great people. Some women, some men, great people and they moved to Mexico. Theyre moving Carrier to Mexico.
Now very simply, the United States is trying to figure out, theyve been talking about this for what? Seven years, eight years, nine years because theyre losing all these companies to Mexico and other places. They want to give them money. They want to give them low interest loans. They dont need the money.
How about the companies that took the low interest loans and left anyway because we had bad lawyers, right? They took the money. They said they didnt ever said we had to stay, OK. Not going to happen anymore folks. What we do is we say, I hope you enjoy your new plant in Mexico. Weathers warm but thats OK. Pretty warm up here too by the way.
Its only 100 degrees in this room. But let me just tell you, if Im president, oh I have to do it. When, when? No, I like to be nice so. See if I say when, theyll say, Oh hes so conceited, hes so terrible. So, I like to say if. I sort of mean when, but I like to say if, because Ill get, you know, wont get fair treatment.
But listen, we will have one of my people that are very, very smart. You know, we have the greatest negotiators in the world. In the United States, we dont use it. We use political ax. And I always say I want to do it myself. I want to make the call myself. Im not supposed to as president of the United States be calling up air conditioning companies, right?
Im not supposed to be calling the president of Carrier air conditioning but its so easy folks. Its -- its so, it goes so quickly. Five minutes, three minutes, two minutes. And Ill say listen, if you leave, I wish you a lot of luck. But if you do leave and youre firing these 1,400 great people, you could go to Mexico.
But every single air conditioning unit that you make, when you sell it back into the United States and you think you got to pay no tax, it doesnt work that way anymore. Were not the stupid people anymore. Youre going to pay a 35% tax for that unit. Comes back in to the United States, 35%. Youre going to pay a nice big tax.
Now it took me about two seconds to think of that. Id said for years, why dont they just say were going to do that? And you know whats going to happen? No. 1, Theyre not going to move. Because all of a sudden, their numbers wont work. Theyre not going to move. Now they may move from Indiana but they have to stay in the United States because were going to fight for people to stay in the United States.
OK. So they can move around. Hopefully they stay in Indiana but they can move around but theyre not moving to other countries. And if they do, theres going to be a price to pay. And Ill tell you whats going to happen. Now with Hillary, some lobbyists or a special interest group will call her. And she knows its so good.
But theyll call her and shell leave it alone. Me? I dont owe to anybody, folks. I dont owe. I do the right thing. So Ill get a call the next day. Meeting me about, lets say my representatives, will get a call the next day and say, Please inform the president of the United States, President Trump, that we are staying in the United States.
Were staying. Were staying in the United States. And thats whats going to happen folks. Its so simple. You dont have to give low interest loans. You dont have to do all this nonsense. All you do is say, Folks, you leave the country and Ill give you another one. When China devalues their currency and they make it impossible for our companies to compete, all we do is say, Hey, congratulations! Were charging you whatever the value is you know theres a certain value that you attribute to that devaluation.
Were charging when you send your goods into the United States. Lots of luck. This is going to be a penalty. Were putting a tax and/or a tariff on your thing. And you know whats going to happen? They wont devalue so fast. Believe me. They wont devalue so fast. We are going to make our country so rich again.
Were going to save our Social Security. Were going to save our Medicare. Others want to cut. Were going to save so much. Were going to rebuild our military. You know, our military is totally depleted. I dont know. Did you see the other day there was a documentary about our jet fighters whos so old they dont have parts?
They dont make the parts anymore. They get the parts from the plane graveyard. They go to the graveyards and they take parts out of planes that have been long ago left to die. And they take them out of museums. They take parts out of planes that are in museums. Not going to happen anymore folks. Were going to rebuild our military.
Its going to create jobs. Were going to have the best jet fighters. Were going to have new beautiful equipment. Were going to take care of our veterans. Were going to take care of our veterans. And folks, we are going to have a border again. We well have a border. I mean you see whats happening. Were going to have a border.
I get along great. Mexico, take my hat off to them. If they can get away with it, I think its great that bringing our companies. China, take my hat off. Im not angry at Japan. Im not angry at China. Im not angry at Mexico. Im angry at our leaders who are so stupid that they dont know whats going on. They dont know what is going on. Our country is being destroyed.
Its being destroyed. So, I just want to tell you this. And by the way, for the people of Ohio, Hillary Clinton effectively wants to abolish the Second Amendment. We are going to protect our Second Amendment. We, you know that. You see whats going on. We are going to protect, you know, the NRA gave me their endorsement, one of the earliest endorsements.
I think the earliest endorsement they ever gave. And Wayne and Kris and all the people at the NRA, my son Don and, and Eric, theyre members, so am I a member. But Ill tell you what. Theyre good people. Wayne, Chris, the whole group, Ive gotten to know them so well. Theyre great people. They want whats good for this country, first.
Believe me, first, they want whats good for the country. Theyre great people. So, we are going to start winning again. Were not winning at anything. We dont win with military. We dont win with healthcare. We dont win with education. And by the way, were cutting Common Core and were going to bring it back local.
Local, local, local education. But were going to start winning again. Were going to win with our military. Were going to win for our veterans. Our veterans have been treated so badly. Were going to win for our miners, that I can tell you. Ill put the miners back to work. Got to put everybody back to work.
Were going to start winning again, folks. Were going to win so much. Youre going to get so sick of it. Youre going to say, I cant stand the winning. I will get a call from representatives from the great state of Ohio, saying, Mr. President, our people can no longer stand it. They cant take it. Youre winning too much.
Please Mr. President, please stop winning. Youre winning with jobs. Youre winning with military. Please lets have a few losses like it used to be, where we could lose all the time. And Ill say, you know what Ill say? Ill say no, no, no. Were going to keep winning. Were going to win with everything.
