Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Speaks at a GOP Fundraiser in Fargo, North Dakota|September 7, 2018
Thank you. What a group of people. What a state. This was a big winner for us, wasnt it? This was a big one. That was a great victory. And I just want to thank you.
The governor is here. Doug, where are you? Doug? OK, come on, Doug. Look at him. See. He gave up the good location so you could have a good location. Thank you very much, Doug. And very much Kathyrn for being here. We appreciate it.
And you have a man whos here whos a special friend of mine. Works with us so hard on all of the tax cuts and the regulation cuts, and all of the things we do, your great Senator John Hoeven. John. Wheres John? Thank you, John.
And, Mikey, thank you for being here. We really appreciate it. And Kevin is special. I have to tell you, I came for Kevin. Ive been here for Kevin. I asked Kevin to do it. He was the one that could do it. Hes the one you love in this state. And I said its time. And I think youre going to do fantastically well.
And you know how well hes doing, hes really doing a fantastic job. So I just want to thank him for going into the race and, you know, you look at what he and Chris have done in a short period of time, theyve really turned it around. And theyre leading, I wont even tell them by how much. OK, I dont want to tell them by how much.
I dont want to tell them by how much, but hes doing great. Thats all I want to say. Always assume youre down by one point. Thats the best right. That way you work real hard.
I want to thank also -- thank you. I want to thank also Kelly Armstrong who is here someplace. Kelly, thank you, Kelly. Running for Congress. Also really out there, very popular, very outstanding person, and thank you very much. Youre going to do fantastic, Kelly.
And Rick Berg, head of the Republican Party. Rick, thank you very much. Thank you, Rick. So we have a very simple, well-defined task. We want to have strong borders. We want to have low taxes. We want to ct the hell out of regulations. We want...
And by the way, we want regulations. Somebody, very popular guy here, was just interviewing me. You know who Im talking about, great guy. And he said, what do you think of President Obamas speech? And I said, Im sorry, I watched it but I fell asleep.  I found hes very good -- very good for sleeping.
I think he was trying to take some credit -- he was trying to take credit for this incredible thing thats happening to our country. If the Democrats -- and I have to say this to President Obama, and it wasnt him, but would have been the same thing. If the Democrats got in with their agenda in November of almost two years ago, instead of having 4.2 up, I believe honestly youd have 4.2 down; youd be negative. Youd be in negative numbers right now. Youd be a negative number. We were heading south.
And you look at those bad numbers that were there in the last couple of years, it was this way, and going in the wrong direction. It was the weakest recovery in the history of our country since, I guess, to be totally specific, because Im not sure theyve gone any further, since the Great Depression, in 20s, it was the weakest recovery weve ever had. It was barely a recovery.
And now this is called not recovery; this is called rocketship, whats happening.
And today, -- today, numbers came out, and this is something that makes me happy. The numbers were great. The job numbers were great. The numbers have been incredible. Almost from the beginning. Took me a few months to get the engine started. And we did that with regulation. I mean, we did that by freeing it up. You had pipelines that couldnt be built. I immediately approved them. Dakota.
How about Dakota Access. That was a very unfair situation. And you know, I approved it. I -- nobody called me. They just built the pipeline, its been working ever since.
Lot of jobs. It was very unfair. They got their approvals, and then they said, you have your approvals but you cant build it; youll never be able to build it. I was told theyd never be able to build it. I approved it on day one. On day one it was approved. The same thing with Keystone. I approved Keystone.
Total of 48,000 jobs. But more importantly, two great projects. And we approved them both immediately, and you would have been stuck. You would have been stuck. You were never getting that approved.
And there are -- so many people thanked me for that. I guess more importantly, though, when I walked in, I was walking in with Kevin Cramer. And walking through the door. And a strong man came up to me, tough kind of a guy. And said, "I want to thank you, Mr. President, for saving our country."
Yeah.
And... and he had -- he had tears coming down his eyes. He had -- this wasnt just a statement because he had tears coming down. Unless he was a real wise guy.
But he had tears coming down his eyes. And he said, "I want to thank you, Mr. President, for saving our country. And I want to thank you for all of the horrible things that you have to go through because its so unfair to you and its so unfair to all of the millions and tens of millions of people that voted for you." Its true.
Thank you. Thank you. So -- so I really appreciated that. And it is. Its very hard for Republicans and Conservatives. We have a great judge right now being looked at, to go up and be the next justice of the United States Supreme Court. This is a great intellect. Hes a great man. Hes a fine person. And the way they are screaming and shouting and its -- its a disgrace to our country, actually. I dont know if anybodys been watching, if theyre making fools out of themselves. And one of those people, Ill be running against in two and a half years. Ill be running against them and I look so forward to it...
...because well be able to give it back. So forward to it.
But the court systems very important. Im going to be appointing -- and have appointed -- a record number of judges. Were going to be district court judges, we have Court of Appeals, we have Supreme Court, of course. And one of the reasons that its so important to get Kevin in is just that. Because, you know, it could change very quickly.
And we could actually have -- you know, this will be -- hopefully everything goes very well with Judge Kavanaugh. Hes -- hes central casting. You know, 10 years ago they said, "Hell be a Supreme Court judge." The intellect is extraordinary, and the man is extraordinary. But they were saying this years ago. I heard it even before I ever thought Id be doing this, that there was a man named Kavanaugh who was extraordinary. And those are the people we want on the Supreme Court. And we have two of them. Well have...
...him, hopefully. And we have Justice Gorsuch, who is just an outstanding -- an outstanding man. Im very proud of it.
But we have to keep it going. If we dont keep it going, that changes. And if it changes, that affects yours Second Amendment rights. That affects so many different thing. We dont have to go into it, but it affects so many different elements of your life.
I know its a big Native American population, and I know its been very tough, and I know Heidi has not done a good job helping them and taking care of them, and they sot of vote for her because maybe they havent had the right choices; maybe they dont the whats going on with respect to the world of Washington and politics.
But I have to tell you with African-American folks, I would say what do you have to lose? As I read a list of the worst things you have ever heard, highest crime rates, worst education, lowest home ownership. And Id read like 10 items, and Ill never forget, they gave me a list; I was making a big speech. And Im reading all these horrible things about crime and education, and home, and so many things, and I just said, what do you have to lose? Vote for me. What the hell do you have to lose? Do you remember that?
And my people all came up to me and, oh, you shouldnt have said that, you shouldnt have said -- why? The response was incredible. Why?
And I used it over and over again. And frankly, you know, we went way up. And now weve produced. Because now African-American unemployment is at the best number in the history of our country. Best number meaning its at its at the lowest in the history of our country.
And Asian-American and Hispanic-American and women, 65 years. But Hispanic, think of it, Hispanic is the best number in the history of our country. And Asian is the lowest in the history of our country. And I say with respect to the Native Americans, that I go right back to where I was two years ago when I was campaigning, what do you have to lose? What do you have to lose?
You put Kevin Cramer into that position and youre going to see things happen that youll never see with Heidi. Youre just never going to see it with Heidi. So Ill say, very respectfully, what the hell do you have to lose? OK.
So I have a list. And the list goes on and on. Its four pages of things that the Trump administration has accomplished in a short period of time; its less than two years. This goes on, and on and on.
I have -- and, if I read it to you -- look at this. This is -- if I -- each dot is a thing. OK? And some of those things are very big things.
More than 4 million jobs created since the election, think of that; 201,000 jobs just last month, brand-new jobs. Wages are growing at the fastest pace in nearly a decade. And what happened this morning? Did you hear that? Two-point-nine percent, its like the best wage number that weve had in many, many years. And that makes me very happy.
To me, you know, we had great jobs numbers this morning. They were just announced and they were fantastic. But the one that stuck out to me was the wage -- I mean, people are starting to be able to live; to live.
So not only unemployment but the wages are starting to go up for people. More Americans are now employed than ever before in the recorded history of our country, think of it. Today, right now, we have more people working than have ever worked.
Weve created more than 400,000. Thats very soon going to be 600,000 manufacturing jobs since my election. Well, President Obama said you wont have manufacturing jobs anymore, theyre not around.
Theyre around -- because if you look at what Ive done for your coal industry, its incredible. We had a man who is in the mining business. He said, sir, what youve done for the coal industry is incredible because we were dead and now were vibrant again. Where is he? Where is that guy? Where -- shout out your name, please. I signed his hat. Guys probably loaded and Im signing hats.
Hey, come up here. Get him up here. Can you try to get him up? I dont know. Who the hell knows who he is; all I know, hes in the coal business.
Come on up.
See if you can get him up here. Hell have to work through -- hes going to have to work through secret service. But who cares? Im -- Im telling you, secret service, hell be all right.  This guy wants to protect Trump.
Come here. Come here.
Does everybody recognize him? I dont. But hes a big -- hes one of the biggest. Tell them what you said about the coal industry. Do you mind? Its always very dangerous for me to...
If -- if -- when given an order, I guess you -- you obey. What -- what I said is that, you know, for eight years the coal industry absolutely had the boot of government on its throat.
And many, many jobs were lost. And many towns were destroyed by this. And it was just a horrible thing. Horrible suffering that happened in this country, really for made up reasons, I think. And what your administration done -- has done is bring us back to life. Jobs have been...
...Jobs have been created, you know, families now have an opportunity to provide for themselves, and have a great future and educations. And small towns in North Dakota and other places really survive because theyve got a great coal mine, theyve got a great power plant. And its, you know, its what Americas about. And its great to see that we, again, care about those things. So thank you, Mr. President.
Very nice. Thank you very much.
Thats so nice. Now, I could stand up here and talk about coal for a half an hour, and I couldnt do as good a job as he just did because...
...Seriously, because hes in the business. Hes knows. He said, you know, you -- we were dead and now were a vibrant -- really a vibrant industry again. And you know, another industry thats vibrant -- it affects you a little bit less, but it affects everybody -- is steel. The steel industry is coming back like Ive never seen anything because of what weve done.
Weve done -- with all the dumping; theyre not doing so much dumping anymore. But the steel industries are coming back. And you know, when they do dump, theyre paying a lot of money on their dump steel that theyre sending in here. And it goes right into the coffers of our country; and, thats OK.
But U.S. Steel is opening up eight plants, Nucor and others are opening up plants. Some of them are spending close to $1 billion on a brand new plant. The steel industry is one of the great things to be talking about. So the manufacturing jobs are back. Theyre coming back and theyre coming back at levels.
Economic growth, as you know, last quarter 4.2. New unemployment claims recently hit a 49-year low. Median -- think of that, I mean, Im going through them like eh...  ...No, think of it, median...
... Yes. Median household income hit the highest level ever recorded. Thats not bad, right? These are some of the biggies.
American pensions have grown more than $2 trillion in value since the election. I said before, the African American unemployment the -- the best ever. The best ever, lowest number ever -- Hispanic American, Asian American.
Women, 65 years, sorry about that; its -- I like history better, right? I like history better, right? Historic as opposed -- I joke, but -- but women its 65 years. Best numbers in unemployment in 65 years, its good. Itll be historic, I would say best in history very shortly, probably another two weeks. Youth unemployment...
...Youth unemployment, the best in half a century. Lowest unemployment rate ever recorded for Americans without a high school diploma. Isnt that a great thing? I mean, nobody even talks about this stuff. Thats like, youve probably never even heard of these categories. Those are important categories to me.
Veterans unemployment recently reached -- its lowest in more than 20 years, and thats going up rapidly. I even think its wrong. I think its a much higher -- even much better than that. If its not, Ill make sure it is. OK? Ill make sure because we love our veterans.  Almost 3.9 million Americans have been lifted off food stamps since my election, 3.9.
So Medicare. If you look at what the Democrats are doing, theyre going to destroy Medicare and theyre going to destroy your Social Security. Were going to save your Social Security. Were going to keep it. Were not going to touch it.
Did you see, when I campaigned, I was the only one that said were not touching your Social Security? Theyd say, how are you going to do it? I said growth.
Were growing faster than even I projected, although I thought wed be around that number. Most other -- if I would have said it during the campaign, they would have laughed me off the stage -- theyve been trying to do that for a long time. That hasnt...
...That hasnt been working too well, has it? And were going to grow a lot faster. You know, the fact is, were doing well. And youve got the 4.2s, were going to go much higher than that.
Most people wouldve said 4.2, itll take years to get there. Well, it didnt take years to get there; very quick. And last time, we were at 3.2 and everybody was shocked. I said its going to much higher. Its going to go much, much higher than anybody believes.
You know, when we fixed the trade deals, that has a big impact. Were losing -- were losing $100 billion with Mexico. Were losing anywhere from $25 billion to $50 billion with Canada, you know, even though Canada likes to say we have no deficit. Theyre smart in saying that.
They have a sheet out that its $98.2 billion, OK? Their sheet, but they dont show us that sheet, thats meant for other reasons. They showed $98.2 billion. Were working on a deal with Canada, well see if its good. If its a good deal for us, if its good for them, I want it to be good for everybody.
But we cannot continue to get ripped off like weve been ripped off before. Our farmers are very important to me. Our farmers -- and youre great patriots. Honestly, youre really great American patriots.
And it takes a little time. But China wasnt letting you in, for -- I mean, for peanuts. And the European Union has been very, very tough on you. They have barriers. They have trade barriers. They sell us but we arent allowed to go in there. I said we cant do that.
And if youre going to do that, were going to tax your cars because thats very easy. And thats the biggest money, the cars. Its all about the cars. Thats the biggest money. And theyre all pouring cars into our country and we dont -- essentially, dont tax them. Its 2-1/2 percent but for the most part, they dont pay.
You know, why should they pay? Why should they pay the U.S.? Theyre not used to paying the U.S. Now theyre paying but its only 2-1/2 percent. And with them, number one, they dont take our cars. And number two, if they do, their tariff is many, many times the amount that they pay us.
So we tax the cars. And as soon as they said that, they all say, OK, well make a deal. So every time I have a problem with any of these -- you know, many of these countries that were talking about -- especially the big car countries -- I just say, OK, look, we cant make those deals. Thats OK. Im going to put a 20 percent tax on you because" -- "Well do it! Well do it! Well agree!"
Well agree. I mean, actually in some countries, including Canada, a tax on cars would be the ruination on the country. Thats how big it is. It would be the ruination of the country. Now, theyve taken advantage of us for many decades. We cant let this happen anymore.
We have a country to run. You know the expression "we have a company to run"? Well, we have a country to run. And when I get these horrible trade deals, these are one-sided, horrible deals. I think NAFTA -- I mean a lot of you people forget, but I think NAFTAs been the worst trade deal ever.
I actually think World Trade Organization was probably the worst of all, but a lot of people dont know what that is, but that allowed China to become this great economic power. And Im a big fan of President Xi, but I told him, I said, "we have to be fair." We cant let China take out $500 billion a year out of the United States and rebuild itself.
We have some of these countries that are considered growing economies. They are considered nations that are not mature yet, so we are paying them subsidies. The whole thing is crazy. You know, like India, like China, like others we say, "oh, theyre growing actually." So I want to be put down in that category because were growing, too. Were going to grow faster than anybody.
And, you know, they call them developing nations. Well, were a developing nation, too, OK? We are. As far as Im concerned, were a developing nation. They call themselves developing nations, and under that category they get subsidies. We have to pay them money. This whole thing is crazy, but were going to stop it. Were going to stop it. We have stopped it.
And when were securing militarily, John Kelly is here, General Kelly, hes great. When were securing the wealthy countries from outside harm because were paying for their military, I think its fine, but they got to pay us for this. Were watching the whole world and they take it for granted.
For years and years weve been protecting these countries. Theyre making a fortune. Theyve had very little military cost. We have the biggest military cost in the world. Most of it goes to protecting outside countries, some of whom dont even like us, some of whom dont even like us.
I mean, were protecting countries that have -- I got to say, they do have respect for us now, but they didnt have any respect for us, and they got to pay. They got to pay, you know, when theyre wealthy.
Now, we are going to protect some people that need help, and thats OK. Thats understandable. We all understand that, but when were protecting these massively wealthy countries -- Im not going to name them, but you probably know some of whom Im talking about -- they got to pay because were not going to be the protector of the world and lose a fortune and have our taxpayers paying while these other countries are living very beautifully thanks to us. Not fair, so we changed that around. I hope everybody agrees .
And by the way, then this idiot Woodward who wrote this book, which is all fiction, said that I said something like that, but he put it in a very crude manner. I -- the concept is true, but the way it was said was very -- you know, hey, I went, like, to the best college. I did lots of good -- I mean, you read this thing, the quotes were wrong. All these -- John Kelly, General Mattis, they were all writing, "I never said that, I never said that."
You know, well its fiction, but they do put down the concept of I said that -- isnt that horrible, isnt that crude. Crude? You know what, I want to have our nation protected and I dont want to be taken advantage of like other countries in the world.
And you know what? They respect us more when they have to pay their bills, and they can afford to pay their bills, and its going to make a big difference for our country. You wait. You watch. You see.
And so many other things. I could go help with the Olympics. We got the Olympics. We just got the World Cup. Thats small stuff compared -- I mean, I must tell you. We opened ANWR, potentially the biggest in world, right? Theyve been trying to do it for 45 years.
We have a record number of regulations eliminated in the history of this country. In less than two years, Ive cut more regulation than any other president regardless of how long they served.
And I think that might have been just as important as the tax cut. Regulatory relief for community banks. They were dying, the community banks. Now they can loan you money. Make a good deal, please.
We enacted all sorts of different elements for credit unions to come so they make it possible for you. My administrations providing more affordable healthcare options for Americans through association health plans and short-term duration plans.
We have all sorts of healthcare. We actually had it beaten, but thats a long story. We appealed and replaced -- but well do it. We had it done, but something happened. But we need -- frankly, youre right. Heidis vote would have been great. If we had Heidis vote, but she voted against it, but we got, if you remember, the individual mandate was wiped out. So we wiped out the individual mandate which is the most unpopular part of Obamacare. We wiped it out. And then I have three more pages -- two more pages just like this. Look.
OK? But isnt this much more excited than listening to President Obama speak?
Because we get things done. All of this, like the gentlemen from the coal industry, I mean, Ive had that from so many people. Ive had it from so many other industries. What were doing for timber and lumber, what were doing for so many other industries, what were doing for cars.
Plants are moving back into the United States. Theyre coming into Michigan. Theyre going into Ohio. Theyre going into Pennsylvania. Theyre going into North Carolina. We have a lot of -- a lot of them coming back in, tremendous. And we have just started.
One of the things I wanted is I dont want our companies -- and I just insist on it -- I dont want our companies moving to other countries, firing everybody, losing these great companies and losing these great jobs, and thats the thing Im most insistent on with trade deals.
We did NAFTA, our country emptied out. They still have empty places up in New England, these big factories that are all empty. They went to move to Mexico and other places, but they moved to Mexico. So I could go on and on. Ive reached so many different things. Weve started the wall. Its moving along.
Kevin is a big fan. Kevins a big fan of the wall, and I just say this. We have so many things -- I will put it very strongly. Youre second amendment is under siege. You put the wrong person in there, theyre going to vote with Schumer. Look, Heidi is going to vote with Schumer and Nancy Pelosi. I always add Maxine Waters in there because...
But hes going to vote with -- were going to vote -- hes going to vote with me. Hes going to vote on making American great again, which soon... Which soon were going to changing to keep America Great, exclamation point. Keep America Great!
And Kevins going to be with us, and weve got the agenda for the courts, the agenda for the borders. We want borders. We dont want people pouring into our country we have no idea who they are, where they come from.
And you know, with these lotteries that we have, we have lotteries from countries where people come in through a lottery system. Do you think that these countries are sending us their finest? I dont think so. Now, they would say, "Thats a terrible thing to say."
I mean, when I hit MS-13 and I called them animals -- theyre animals -- Nancy Pelosi said, "How dare you say that about another human being," you know? No, we have to be tough. We have to protect our law enforcement just like they protect us.
ICE is under siege and our law enforcement is under siege. And they want to have weak law enforcement, and basically they want to have crime coming. Look what happened in Chicago with a liberal mayor that had these stupid, stupid policies, but now hes not running anymore.
So thats fine, but, I mean, two weeks ago, 68 people shot, 12 died, Chicago. Thats our country. I mean, excuse the crime figures because the crime figures in the United States are doing well. But you add -- thats a lot of addition in terms of skewing numbers.
But thatll get straightened out. Its easy to straighten out if you have the right policy. Its actually easy to straighten out. So we want to have strong borders, and thats Kevin. We want to have no crime. Thats Kevin -- Kevin Cramer. We want to have...
Were going to have totally protected Medicare. Were going to protect our Social Security. Thats Kevin. The Democrats are going to destroy your Social Security. As sure as youre standing -- theyre sorry for no seats, but the crowd was bigger than theyre supposed to be...
But as sure are youre standing there, they are going to -- they want to destroy your Social Security. Were going to protect it. Kevins going to protect your Second Amendment, and so am I. But you know...
Things like that -- thats a very important thing. And things like that, they are under siege and things like that can disappear very -- very quickly if you dont have the right people.
So Im here for Kevin Cramer. I want to thank you all for supporting him. Its -- its an honor for me, because hes a very special man and I really said -- you really owe it to the country, you have to do this. You have to do this. We need that vote. We need him, we need his brainpower, we need his presence in Washington D.C., because that place is brutal. Its brutal. Its a -- a lot of bad, bad things up here are going -- going through peoples heads. These are sick people. These are sick people.
I mean, the deceit and the -- you know, some of these Democrat senators, "Oh Mr. President, how are you? Im such a fan, blah blah blah," but then I see them on television 10 minutes later, "We must get rid of this guy." I said, "Wait a minute, I just said hello to the guy 15 minutes ago, hes hugging and kissing me. Hes hugging, hes kissing, and then hes talking" -- these people -- its bad.
I used to say, "Real estate guys in New York, theyre really tough." Now I say, "Theyre babies." Theyre babies.
