Donald Trump|Interview: Vince Coglianese and Saagar Enjeti of The Daily Caller Interview Donald Trump|September 3, 2018
And the one I didnt get was Friess, I was asked to do that, by my son Don, and I did it but I did it -- I was asked the morning of -- and by the time I did it I guess 70 percent, almost 70 percent of the vote was already cast. So, I dont consider that to be, maybe Ill take a quarter of a loss on that one. But I think its 48 and a quarter, its 48-1 which is pretty good, right? Pretty good.
Its very much my gut instinct coupled with a lot of talented people that I have that know where these people have come from over the last two years. For instance, sometimes Ill have a nasty never-Trumper and every once in a while its recoverable but generally speaking if somebody is that much opposed. Now if somebody is opposed, thats one thing, if theyre that much opposed to a tune of coming up with the never-Trumper type stigma, its rare that Ill get involved.
I think we have a lot of them. The Republican governor of Georgia, he was down 10, and I endorsed him, and I think he won 70-30. He won by 40 points. I did that endorsement at the request and I liked him a lot. First of all, I have to really respect the candidate, I have to like the candidate, otherwise Im just not going to get involved. But hes currently running as you know, he won the race against the man that was favored.
But I did that for Sonny Perdue. But when I did it he was down about 10 points. And he ended up winning by 70-30. He won by 40 points, so that means he picked up 50. I mean, there are a lot of them. I would say of the list of 48 victories, I would say that close to half of them were races that couldve been lost. I think the one in Ohio was a great victory, because when I get involved I dont have the percentages, but he was very, very down. And he ended up winning by 1,800 votes.
I would say Kansas is a good example. The governor of Kansas was running against somebody thats always been, you know Kris whos always been very strong Trump, right from the beginning. And you know hes the governor of Kansas hes running against. Kris is a good man, so I endorsed him, and he won.
Close one, but he won. He was down 11. He was down 11 when I endorsed him with about a week, with about three days left, and he ended up winning. Donovan or Seth Dialin. He was down ten and won by 24 points.
Or thereabouts. That was a surprise because he was going to, you know, he was expected to lose. I endorsed him. He won by a lot. As you know he was expected to lose against the previous congressman, right? He followed him. I guess the one they talk about the most is Florida because he was at 3, dont forget when I endorsed him, he was at 3. I put out two tweets. I put one out where I say hes really good, blah, blah, blah, but that wasnt an endorsement. That was when he was at 3. A lot of people dont view that, they view the endorsement. Then a few months later and he went from 3 to -- so he was at 3, with little money but a great guy and brilliant education. You know, he went to Harvard, Yale -- great, terrific student, very smart guy. Just a very impressive guy, Ive always liked him -- Ron DeSantis. But he was at 3 and he went up to in the 20s with just not an endorsement. And then the endorsement, I mean —.
Well, the one who lost, who was expected to be the governor of Florida for the last four years. You know, they thought he had $21 million in the bank and his poll numbers were into the 20s and 30s. And Ron hadnt really started much of the fundraising yet. And he was at 3. So then he went up from 3 to in the 20s. And then he started fundraising and did very well. And then he went from the 20s to win by 20 points. And that seems to be the one that people are most impressed with.
I could go on for an hour, but there were many of people that were way behind that ended up winning.
Thats false. You know the deal was, that its false. Made up. Disgruntled employees or just made up, could just be made up by the author. That was on the South Korean trade deal, which Ive completed just recently. And were going to be signing it, I think well be signing it during United Nations week in a couple of weeks in New York. The deal was done, its an incredible deal. It was a terrible deal.
But it was a Hillary Clinton deal where we lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. And I voided the agreement, made a new one and theres a good example, that wasnt having to do with North Korea, that had to do with just the South, with the Korean deal on trade. And that deal, I got it completed, and it went from a horrible deal to a deal thats good for the United States and hopefully good for South Korea. That was a one-way horror show. There was nobody taking anything from it. I mean, nothing. I can tell you that deal went relatively smoothly along.
Well, its just nasty stuff. I never spoke to him, and maybe I wasnt given messages that he called. I probably wouldve spoken to him if he got through, but he was, for some reason I did not get messages on it. Ill tell you, General Kelly just put out a statement that his statement was totally false -- he never made it. He put it out a little while ago, youll get it from Sarah. But I did have something done for you guys cause I figured you may.
Oh, good, thank you. I just had this made up. This doesnt even, no president in history has done what Ive done in two years. The other side is going crazy, they are lunatics. And heres a list of things that Ive done that you guys can have. I just had it made up for you because you guys have always been fair. Kelly has said that its a false statement.
Many of the people have said theyre false statements. Its just another bad book, and you know hes had a lot of credibility problems, Woodward, as you know, youve seen it. Hes had a lot of credibility problems. I wish I couldve -- I probably wouldve preferred to speak to him, but maybe not. I think it probably wouldnt have made any difference in the book. He wanted to write a book a certain way.
You guys do understand what I mean, though -- its terrible what they can write. They can write anything they want. They can say anything they want. And honestly, its a shame. Its really a shame. Go ahead.
I think its a terrible message. I have Nike is a tenant of mine. They pay me a lot of rent. But I think its a terrible, horrible message that theyre sending. And the purpose of them doing it, you know, maybe there is a reason for them doing it. But I think as far as sending a message, I think its a terrible message and a message that shouldnt be sent. Theres no reason for it.
Yes.
I think its very unfortunate. Its almost like theyre proud of, its almost like theyre embarrassed at the achievement coming from America. I think its a terrible thing.
Well, I really believe when, cause when you think of Neil Armstrong and when you think about the landing on the moon, you think about the American flag. And I understand they dont do it. So for that reason I wouldnt even want to watch the movie.
Thats up to them. It really is, thats up to them. I dont want to get into the world of boycotts. Same thing with Nike. I wouldnt say you dont buy Nike because of the Colin Kaepernick. I mean, look, as much as I disagree, as an example, with the Colin Kaepernick endorsement, in another way, I wouldnt have done it. In another way, it is what this country is all about, that you have certain freedoms to do things that other people may think you shouldnt do. So you know, I personally am on a different side of it, you guys are probably too, Im on a different side of it.
I would like that to happen, and I think it has happened. You know, I did actually a lot better than people thought with African-American voters or probably I wouldnt be sitting behind this desk. But now my numbers are much higher than they were, and Kanye West was a part of it. And so is Tiger.
No, I credit more, I do, I think that helped, and I also credit the fact that African-American unemployment is the lowest level in the history of this country. Homeownership is up for African-Americans -- way up, every category. Theyre doing better than they did with the past administration or the Democrats. And I actually think my next run because of that will be a lot easier.
Dont forget, when I used to say, when I used to read off crime statistics and education statistics, how bad education was in black communities and all of the horrible statistics, homeownerships statistics, when I used to call that out and Id say what do you have to lose by voting for me because theyve always voted for Democrats. I mean essentially almost 100 percent. I say what do you have to lose? Now I go up and say listen heres what Ive done. Your unemployment is the lowest its ever been and then I go point after point after point. I dont know how anyone beats that message. Thats a tough message to beat. I dont know if you guys agree. So before I went up with a promise, but its a promise. Now Im going up with real stuff.
Yeah, I mean, not only there how about with everybody? Strongest economy the countrys ever had. We have the best economy the countrys ever had and its getting better. I think your next numbers are going to be even better. So the 4.1 gets up to 4.2, gets re-adjusted to 4.2 and you know, when you think -- I think we have tremendous potential to go upward.
And the trade deals are going to be a big part of it. And military protection is going to be a big part. I mean, Im criticized in this crazy book about military protection -- well theyre right. I think its horrible whats happening to the United States. Were protecting immensely wealthy countries and theyre not paying us for the protection. I say, why are we protecting you when youre very wealthy and you wouldnt be here for two weeks if it wasnt for us? Why arent we being reimbursed for this massive cost? Fully reimbursed -- for this massive cost that were taking care of.
Amazingly alone. Amazingly. A lot of generals dont understand it, a lot of people dont understand it. Amazingly alone. But Ive gotten many converts over the last period of a year. But I started off amazingly alone. Once you say it three or four times people start to say wow hes right about that. I mean, I could go country after country, but I wont embarrass them. But immensely wealthy countries, where theyre paying a fraction of what its costing us to protect them. And without us they wouldnt even be there.
Well, your question was so good because nobody has ever asked me that. Its almost like you sort of understood the situation better, does everyone agree with you on that? Because you guys are probably sitting there saying, but then youre saying but you have to go through this incredible layer of people.
Yeah, I mean and I say to myself OK, you have a country, its immensely wealthy, were guarding it. Were spending tremendous amounts, billions of dollars to guard and theyre not reimbursing us. Why? Ill be honest, Ive asked countries, Ive said, youve got to reimburse us. First, they dont even understand the question. Within five minutes, they agree.
They actually, no, but youll be seeing things come out. Ill talk to you. They actually cant believe theyve gotten away with it for so long. I had one guy say we knew you were going to be asking. Like they cant believe it took so long. These are really wealthy -- there are actually many of them. But these are really wealthy, really successful.
They spend very little, Ill give you an example, is NATO. So were paying anywhere from 70-90 percent the cost of NATO to guard Europe. OK? Against Russia. Were spending -- you know, mostly against Russia. So, were spending 70-90 percent. Now a lot of people think, oh its great for us. Its great for Europe. OK? Its not great for us. Its great for Europe. And thats OK. But they got to pay their share.
So, I went there and I had a very successful meeting. And I was able to get them to spend big, last year, just with a low key meeting they paid $43 billion more. OK? As Stoltenberg said. This year its much more than that. Theyve gone way up. But you know, I dont know if youve looked, NATO spending was going this way -- people werent paying, you know why, cause no one was really asking. Our past presidents would go in, theyd make a little speech, hey wed like you to pay your bills and theyd leave and that would be the last thing.
Ask, you may want to call him, but ask Stoltenberg what he thinks because hes my biggest fan in a sense cause he cant believe whats happened. Now these countries are paying. One of the best meetings, one of the most successful meetings I had was with President Putin. But the press, it was fake news. It was a great meeting. We had a great meeting. Its good if we get along with Russia, not bad. And its good if we get along with China and now were in very much of a trade situation with them.
But we cant allow them to take $500 billion out of our country every year. With Russia we had a very good meeting, but if you read the papers, its just all fake news. You know, we talked about Syria, we talked about Ukraine, we talked about Israel and protecting Israel. We had a great meeting and then I guess they wanted me to get into a boxing match with him on the podium. Its the craziest thing Ive ever seen.
Well, you saw what I put out, right?
I better not, I wont say. I wont say. But I dont like it. You know, it was very interesting, I was at a meeting in Indiana, and a woman was there, we had a one closed room meeting with people from the state. And a woman was telling me about this happening, this was a couple of weeks ago, and said we have a chance, she was Syrian, she was from Syria, and she said I think theyre going to kill millions of people. And I said, no, that wont happen because the world is watching. And she explained, she was from the area, she said she thinks her family is going to be killed.
I went out and then yesterday I read a big story about it, and I said, you know that woman is potentially right. But by my putting out that message I think maybe its going to send a signal. I mean were going to see, but its a terrible thing. There are a lot of bad things going on in the world, that I can say.
Let them have it, these guys have been great. Let them have a few more.
Will I declassify them?
Well, were looking at it very seriously right now because the things that have gone on are so bad, so bad. I mean they were surveilling my campaign. If that happened on the other foot, they wouldve considered that treasonous. They wouldve considered that spying at the highest level. Can you imagine if we were doing that to Obama instead of Obama and his people doing that to us? Everybody wouldve been in jail for the next 500 years. OK? Can you believe it, where they paid this guy millions of dollars, it turned out? If you look at all of the things that are happening.
Well, I view it as an illegal investigation. It shouldve never been started. It shouldve never been allowed to start. You know, Im not the target of this investigation, just in case you dont realize. But I view it as being illegal for many reasons. Some of which are that, number one there was no crime and number two everybody was conflicted, including Mueller. There were, I mean tremendous conflicts here, you know the conflicts, youve heard the conflicts.
Sitting right in that chair.
I liked him, but I didnt give him the job?
But I had a business dispute with Mueller before that. I had a real business dispute. And hes Comeys best friend. And I could give you 100 pictures of him and Comey hugging and kissing each other. You know, hes Comeys best friend. How can you possibly have a man who is that, and then somebody from his law firm came out and said, I cant believe they picked Mueller. He hates the president. He hates the president. So thats four things, thats four, then you have the conflicts of the people -- you know I call them the 17 angry Democrats, I guess theyre being lowered down now.
Its incredible when you look at Weissman and all these people. Some of the people work for the Hillary Clinton foundation. Its an incredible thing. Honestly, people are very angry about it. People that love our country are very angry about it. So, I consider it to be an illegal investigation. It shouldve never been allowed to have happened.
Well, I think they already have. I mean, the true interference in the last election was that -- if you look at all, virtually all of those companies are super liberal companies. They were in favor of Hillary Clinton. Now maybe I did a better job because Im good with the Twitter and Im good at social media, but the truth is they were all on Hillary Clinton side, and if you look at what was going on with Facebook and with Google and all of it, they were very much on her side. And thats a real situation.
When I say, though, when you start, when you start getting into it, it can also reverberate that the others, it could switch the other way some day, I dont know, maybe someday it will. Thats why I use the CNN situation. Id rather have CNNs voice, as fake news as it is, Id rather have the CNN voice, like for instance I watched this thing play out today on NBC, which I consider to be worse than CNN in a certain way. Even though I made them a lot of money with The Apprentice -- a lot of money. But I consider it to be probably worse than CNN with Harvey Weinstein and whats going on there.
No, but I know you have to get licensed, and I can tell you that CNN -- that ABC, most of them, but that NBC is very dishonest in its reporting of me. Very dishonest in its reporting of me. So, if theyre dishonest of me, now I think theyre more dishonest of me than they would be of most people because most people they dont care about, but they are very dishonest.
A lot of people say that what they did -- OK, so I had a lawsuit prepared, I had a lawsuit that was prepared to be filed against NBC because they leaked that tape. First of all, that was done, that tape was, there are even questions about this tape, theres many things going on.
But it was also done in a dressing room -- real questions about that whole process. And they gave it to the Washington Post because they couldnt put it out there themselves cause they wouldve had tremendous liability so they gave it to the Washington Post to put out. OK. I had a lawyer hired to bring a suit right after the election ended.
But one problem arose -- I won the election. OK, and they were going to say, what was your damages? The damages was I lost the election, but now I won the election. So what were the damages? I won the election. I was going to sue because what they did -- that was done in the dressing room. You know those trailers are really luxury, beautiful, actually. That was done in a trailer. It ruined Billy Bushs career. And that was done in a trailer secretly. That was illegal what they did.
Well, not only NBC, I think the media, large segments of the, not all, large segments of the media are corrupt. Absolutely.
Well, he runs an organization that as far as its reporting on me is very dishonest. Theyre very dishonest. I can do something good and theyll make it as bad as possible. No matter what I do. If I do something thats really good, theyll make it as bad as they can make it. If I do something bad, its like you know, its like I should get the electric chair. Its incredible.
Sleepy Eyes.
Hes Sleepy Eyes Chuck Todd. He covers me very dishonestly, I mean you watch his show, its like he gets angry at people if they say Ive done a good job. And they wont appear on the show again. You look at these panels of people, the worst are the panels. You look at this guy Dowd on ABC, I dont even know who the hell he is.
Hes just horrendous, hes supposed to be a Republican. You know, its always rough when they say Republican and then they go into -- and my people say, Geez hes a Republican, how can he be that way?
Ana Navarro, shes sick. I mean, shes sick. The hatred. I never met Ana Navarro. I met Dowd once, he came right into the Oval Office like about a year ago, walked in, could not have been nicer, I said hello, just a quick -- he was in the White House. You were there, I think, Sarah. We said a quick hello and that was it. And he was gone. Couldnt have been nicer. But before that, brutal, but I watched him a week ago and the level of hatred is beyond anything normal that I can imagine.
Yeah.
A good show or a bad show?
Im amazed that people allow the interruption to continue. You know, there are some people that just keep screaming at the same people. In the old days we used to throw them out. Today I guess they just keep screaming. I thought Sen. Hatch was good because he was very indignant at the interruptions by a woman that was up there that just kept going on and on. I dont know why they dont, why they dont take care of a situation like that because its terrible.
I think its embarrassing for the country to allow protesters, you dont even know which side the protesters were on. But to allow someone to stand up and scream from the top of their lungs and nobody does anything about it is frankly -- I think its an embarrassment. I think, well its really early stages, but I think the Democrats are grasping at straws, that looks like to me. Its incredible how bipartisan everything, when you look at how the opposite, I mean, when you look at how the level of division between the two sides, its sort of incredible.
Yeah, I mean, I hope they are, cause Id love to run against them. So far I dont see anybody -- I saw John Kerry is looking, I like that very much. Hes the father of the Iran deal.
Id love Joe Biden, sleepy Joe. Id love Joe Biden to run. It looks like theyre going to have a lot of people lining up, but so far, and Im an honest guy, Ill let you know if theres anybody I see that could be trouble. But so far, Im not seeing it. I think theyre using this hearing as an audition for the presidency.
Well, I want to keep, I dont like the idea of shutdowns. Weve already started the wall. Weve gotten $3.2 billion for the wall. Weve done a lot of work on the wall. San Diego is completing now the whole, a big chunk of -- were putting it in the worst areas where we really need it the most.
Ultimately I can do it all in one year, Id like to get the funding, the full funding, but we have done a lot of work. People dont realize that. Ive done it very quietly. The press isnt picking it up. Weve done a lot of work on the wall. And its really, really good work. Border security is a very important issue. I dont see even myself or anybody else closing down the country right now.
I think that after midterms, were going to have a very serious discussion because we want border security, we have to have it. Its going to be a big part of -- it is a big part of this country. We have to have border security.
Look, what I say is this, if youre going to come into the country illegally, thats why our numbers good despite horrible laws. We have horrible laws, but our numbers are good in terms of keeping our country safe. Theres gotta be a price to pay. Theres gotta be a price to pay, and there is a price to pay.
You know were very tough on people crossing the borders illegally. And you know Obama had the same policy of separation. You know, people dont realize half the pictures were taken of separation were taken where, most of the pictures, that pictures in 14 of kids separated from their parents. That was all Obama. People dont say it but Obama had the same law that I did and they separated parents from children. I think you guys understand that.
You like these people, dont you? Do you want to give them one more question? Go ahead.
Its so sad to watch.
Its so sad to watch. The numbers, the length of time, you know, going back 70 years. I think its having a really negative impact on the Catholic Church. I think its very sad, to me its one of the sadder stories cause I respect so much the Catholic Church. And to me its a very sad story. The Pope is handling it, I guess, the best anyone can handle it. How is he going to handle it?
