Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Attends Pratt Industries Opening in Wapakoneta, Ohio|September 22, 2019
So, a lot of people dont tell you about Anthony, but Ill tell you about Anthony. He is the most successful man in Australia. And he said, "Im going to come here and Im going to spend $10 billion if you win the election." And I won the election. And I said, "Come on, Anthony. Whats happening here?" And hes going to -- hes spent $2 billion.
And hes spending a lot of more -- a lot more money and hes a great man. And hes my friend and I appreciate it. Thank you, Anthony. And also, thank you for that warm welcome. Thank you for your tremendous investment in America and the hardworking patriots of Ohio. Hes very happy. They said -- this force -- I said, "How are they?
Are they as good as I think you said?" "Even better." That doesnt always happen. That doesnt always happen. I especially want to recognize and thank Claudine, who has worked with my company for a long time. Shes a dynamo. Shes an incredible talent. And when I found out she was with Anthony, I said, "Wow. Thats a combination that cannot be beat." Where is Claudine?
Claudine, thank you. Thats an impossible combination to beat. Good. Were profoundly grateful to be joined today by one of Americas greatest friends and most loyal allies -- somebody thats become a very good friend of mine. We had an unbelievable event at the White House; you probably saw it on Friday.
Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. And he recently won the election in Australia. Some of you know. And it was supposed to be close and he blew them away -- because he believes a lot of the same things I believe, I guess. That helps. He blew them away. Hes a great gentleman and they love him in Australia and they now love him in the United States of America, too.
Thank you for being with us. Its a great evening. Thanks also to Ambassador Arthur Culvahouse. Way to go. You made it. You made it. My friend. And his Australian counterpart, Ambassador Joe Hockey. Thank you, Joe. Tough cookie, Joe is. Right? I hear that. Were honored to be joined by two great champions for Ohio workers: Senator Rob Portman and Congressman Jim Jordan.
Where are they? Thank you, Jane. Thank you very much. Jim. No, how would I do wrestling Jim -- 128 and 1? I dont know.  Im bigger than he is. I dont know, Jim. You could have --
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Rob. I appreciate you being here. I appreciate it. Jim, thank you very much. And finally, thank you to General Manager Ed Kersey and everyone at Pratt Industries. Thank you very much. This is a very special occasion. Today, we celebrate the extraordinary economic partnership between our nations and we proudly declare that Pratt Industries and this great, great state of Ohio is open for business.
Open for business. And Pratt has pledged, as I said, to invest many billions of dollars in the United States. Its okay if you come back to Ohio. You know, you can keep coming back here. Do you -- I think we want him back. Hell do another couple of plants. And its been an incredible victory having Anthony and the whole Pratt Industries here.
But its been really a victory for American workers, American manufacturing, and American jobs. We love jobs. When this plant is fully operational, hundreds of Ohio workers will have full-time jobs with quality healthcare, retirement benefits, and really great wages. You guys are all getting good wages, I guess, right?
Good? Huh? They say "yes." Theyre so happy you could probably reduce them a little bit, Anthony.  No, were only -- were only kidding. Were only kidding. But Im especially excited to announce that one in four workers at this plant is a veteran -- a great American veteran. Right?
Right? He knows what he is doing. Nobody like our vets. We love those vets. Thank you, fellas. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Every year, you will recycle discarded paper into 400,000 tons of high-quality new paper and more than 300 million boxes -- all without cutting down a single tree.
Not a single tree comes down. I was asking Anthony how many plants are those -- what percentage of paper is made this way, and its less than 20 percent -- growing all the time, but less than 20 percent. And so this is really cutting-edge stuff. And thats really great. Proving that we can protect our environment and grow our economy at the same time.
With Pratts new facility, our historic investment in the -- and you remember this -- the Lima Army Tank Plant. Remember I came and it was supposed to close down -- before the election? I came up, Anthony, and it was really something. Scott, they had this incredible plant that made Army tanks -- the Abrams tanks, right?
Abrams. The best tank in the world -- known as the best tank in the world. And they were going to close it. And I came up, I said, "Why are we going to close it? Youll never be able to rebuild a thing like this." And then we got a lot of budgets. We won the election. And our military budget is $700 billion, $716 billion, and then $738 billion.
And were buying a lot of those Abrams tanks and were also selling them to allies all over the world. And thats one of the busiest plants we have anywhere in the country. And if we would have closed it down, you could have never gotten the people to do tanks like that -- the talent in that place. And I dont even know what it was; it was instinct.
Because everybody said, "Were going to close it down. Were going to save about three dollars."  Not too good, right? As Anthony mentioned, over the next decade, Pratt Industries is creating 5,000 new jobs in the United States. This massive new investment is made possible by the historic tax cuts and tax credits that we signed into law.
We lowered our business tax from the highest anywhere in the developed world to one that is extremely competitive -- even really considered pretty low -- meaning a lot of companies, like from Australia and other places are coming over. Since then, American companies have brought nearly $1 trillion back to our shores.
And thats 1 trillion dollars worth of jobs. So its great. And just in concluding, our message is clear: There has never been a better time to hire, invest, build, and grow in the United States of America. Every day, were seeing more products roll off the assembly line stamped with that beautiful grouping of words: "Made in the USA." Remember?
Made in the USA. "Made in the USA." Do you like better "Made in the USA" or "Made in America"? What do you like? "Made in the USA"? Go ahead. "Made in the USA."
I think thats it. "Made in the USA." I love those little polls. They cost me nothing, and we learn a lot.  Its like, "Which hat do you like better? MAGA -- Make America Great Again -- or Keep America Great?" Look at all of these "Keep America Great." Wow. Wow. Its going to be "Keep America Great" and thats -- believe it or not, but were never getting rid of "MAGA." We never leave.
Youll buy that if you want. Youll get it. Well give it to you. Well do whatever we have to do, but "Make America Great Again" -- well never forget that phrase, will we? Huh? Well never forget that phrase. Foreign-owned companies invested an additional $250 billion in America last year alone, including more than $3 billion from your great country, Mr. Prime Minister.
Thank you very much. Australia went $3 billion. When I ran for President, I promised to fight for Ohio jobs and Ohio workers, and thats exactly what weve done. And right now, youve got the lowest unemployment youve ever had. You have the most successful state that youve ever had. And Jim Jordan and Rob and everybody have been incredible.
And I want to thank you. I want to thank all of the -- political folks that are with us. Youve been great. Most successful year youve ever had. Companies around the world are realizing theres nowhere theyd rather be than right here in the American Heartland, and there is no worker more skilled than the American worker.
Although, Scott hasnt finished his speech yet. I think he may be debating, but thats okay. Well accept that. These investments are part of an economic revival, Scott, thats been absolutely incredible. People didnt have jobs. They were incredible, but they were taking -- we call them the "forgotten men and forgotten women." And youre not forgotten anymore, I will tell you.
Youre not forgotten anymore. Setting records. Since the election, weve created more than 6 million new jobs. Weve created nearly 90,000 new jobs right here in Ohio, and almost one quarter of those jobs are in the manufacturing, which everybody said will never come back to the United States.
They said -- a previous administration, a certain administration said, "Theyll never come back. Youd need a magic wand." Im sure you dont remember that, folks. I remember. More than 7 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps in the United States -- since our election. And last month alone, nearly 600,000 people -- think of that, 600,000 people -- joined our workforce.
In the last year, the average worker has seen way over 100 -- well, just listen to this one: In the last year, youre over 1,000 dollars, but the number is as high as 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 dollars extra in the pocket. Thirteen straight months of wage growth of at least 3 percent. That hasnt happened for many years.
I used to speak and I used to say that -- this is two and a half, three years ago, during the campaign -- Id say that people made more money 21 years ago working one job than they did working two and three jobs just three years ago. And now those wages are going up. And more importantly, youre able to go and find jobs.
If you dont like it here, if you dont like it someplace, you can go around and you can go find -- everybody is looking and theyre paying. And it hasnt been like this for 25 years at least. Unemployment claims in Ohio have reached the lowest theyve been in 41 years. And African American, Hispanic American, Asian American unemployment have reached the lowest levels ever recorded.
African American and Hispanic American poverty rates also reached the all-time low records in the history of our country. Today, as we restore the might of American manufacturing -- and that means jobs to me -- we also strengthen the enduring bonds between Australia, which is truly a great country, and the United States.
Australia is one of our most important allies and trading partners, with more than $65 billion in trade between our nations last year. And I believe were the largest investor in Australia by quite a bit. We invest a lot of money in Australia. Its an incredible -- incredible people to deal with.
Unlike so many other nations, Australia upholds the principles of fair and reciprocal trade. For this reason, America is committed to further growing, expanding, and strengthening, Scott, our trade and commerce relationships between the United States and Australia. And, Mr. Prime Minister, I want to thank you for your commitment to fair trade policies that bring vast benefits and jobs to both of our countries.
Because thats whats happened -- both of countries. And here in Ohio, we see the shining example of the wonderful future we can build together -- a future where proud, independent nations uplift each other and the world by uplifting their own citizens. A future where our families are prospering, our communities are thriving like never before, our economies are booming, our confidence is soaring, our citizens are proud, and our nations are greater than ever before.
And I can say it for us, but I can also say that Australia -- Australia right now is greater than its ever been before. So I want to thank you, Anthony, for everything youve done and Pratt Industries. What a great investment. He is definitely a man of his word. He said, "Id do it." And he did it. And hes going to do more.
