Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Concord, NC|November 3, 2016
Thank you. These are wild times.
These are wild times. Wow, what a beautiful building, and place, and all these people. But honestly we always have a lot of people. They just want to see this country do the right thing again, you know that. Were going to do the right thing.
Were going to be a smart country again, very soon. I want to begin by thanking my amazing wife, Melania.
I dont know if anybody saw her today. She got up and gave an incredible speech and she -- she did a great job. That takes -- takes a lot of courage, takes a lot of courage.
In five days were going to win the great state of North Carolina and we are going to win back the White House.
Great state, great people. And the polls have been amazing. One just came out, the Rasmussen poll. Were three points up nationwide.
Were leading in Ohio, were leading in Iowa, were leading in Florida, were leading in North Carolina, which is...
Were leading -- just came out two minutes ago, two polls, were leading in New Hampshire.
Were sort of leading all over the place, its a great honor -- its a great honor, honestly. And this is not an easy thing to do, you know that. But we had to do it. You have to do it. We have to do it. Were all doing it together. So, I just want to thank you. Its like we have no choice, we have no choice.
Well, hopefully, you voted or youre going to vote early, but youre going to vote. But, remember, November 8th, so important. And you get out there early, if you can. Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare, you know that.
Its just been announced that the residents of North Carolina are going to experience a massive double-digit premium hike.
In the great state of Arizona -- where I just left -- premiums are going up 116 percent, theyre not happy. Ninety-five of 100 North Carolina counties will only have one insurer in the Obamacare exchange next year, which is a catastrophe, frankly. Lots of luck in that negotiation, by the way, folks. Dont worry about it, itll be dead. Well kill it and were going to start all over again with a great one.
Youll be spending a lot less money for much, much better health care, much, much less money. In Minnesota, where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor said, the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, and deductibles are through the roof. You know, some people have 15, $16,000 deductible. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.
Itll be much more expensive.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Did you ever see anything like whats going on right now? If we dont get rid of Obamacare, it will destroy health care in North Carolina and all over the United States, it will be the end. Im asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in North Carolina, and frankly in the United States.
Real change also means restoring honesty to government. Where we have a problem with Hillary.  There is important breaking news from last night. It was reported that the FBI is conducting a criminal investigation into Hillary Clintons pay-for-play...
... corruption at the State Department. This is in addition to the FBIs criminal investigation into her e-mails.  650,000 e-mails. They say the Federal Bureau, that its likely to yield a very, very serious charge or an indictment. Im just saying thats what the newspapers are saying.
Thats what the reports say. However, it was also reported that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying to protect Hillary Clinton.
Telling FBI agents to stand down, and is interfering in the FBIs criminal investigation.  Perhaps thats what happened the first time. I would imagine thats whats happened. Further, its believed that no less than five foreign intelligence agencies successfully hacked into Hillarys illegal insecure server. In other words, Hillarys corrupt criminal scheme put the safety of every American family in danger, thats whats happened.
Hillary Clinton is engaged in far-reaching criminal conduct and in an equally far-reaching criminal cover up, including the destruction of 33,000 e-mails, after receiving -- after -- after, can you imagine? Can you imagine if I did that? They would say, he must immediately leave this race. Oh, boy. Thirty-three thousand e-mails were deleted after receiving a Congressional subpoena. That alone, folks -- thats not the new group; thats the old group. That alone is big problems, for which she got away with murder. Honestly, she has no right to be running, you know that. No right.
But now shes got bigger problems. If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented Constitutional crisis that would cripple the operations of our government. She is likely to be under investigation for many years, and also it will probably end up -- in my opinion -- in a criminal trial. I mean, you take a look. Who knows? But it certainly looks that way, certainly being spoken of.
Americans deserve a government that can work and really has to work for them from day one, well do that. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption.
The plan includes a Constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.
It also includes a lifetime ban on government officials becoming lobbyists for a foreign government. Id say that makes senses.
That sort of makes sense, right? I think so. Makes sense? I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we -- we, as a group -- all say right now, when we win on November 8th, were going to Washington, and we are going to drain the swamp.
Were going to drain the swamp. At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back your jobs that have been taken away.
Theyve been taken away. North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary.
The worst trade deal ever signed in the history of the world, believe me. America has lost -- I never believe number when I give it -- but Americas lost 70,000 factories -- 70,000. You wouldnt think its possible. Seventy thousand factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster. Were living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, we are. Nobody has every lost jobs like we do. Defective contracts, negotiated by political hacks.
We have the greatest business people, greatest negotiators in the world in this country, we dont use them. We use political hacks that gave a contribution or a campaign contribution. They end up getting jobs. This is whos dealing with China, with -- how about Iran? How about the new Iran deal done by....
Started by -- started by Hillary Clinton, and finished off by our great bicyclist, our great bicycle racer.
Hes in a bicycle race. He breaks his leg in the middle of the negotiation. I promise you, I will never enter a bicycle race. I promise. I swear, I swear.
I now have nearly -- and think of this one, cause I cant even believe it -- we have an 800 -- almost -- $800 billion a year annual trade deficit with the world. OK? Eight hundred billion. Whos negotiating these deals? Whos -- whos negotiating these deals? Dont worry, itll change -- itll change. Weve got Carl Icahn, weve got the greatest negotiators in the world, itll change so fast. And these guys -- I have some of the best business leaders in the world. They do it for sport, they dont want money, they -- theyll do it for sport.
The same special interests who shipped the jobs out of America are the people whove given hundreds of millions of dollars to Hillary Clinton.
Now, I just got back from Florida. I was begging for like a regular commercial, Ivory Snow, Heinz ketchup, every commercial was a hit on Trump, hit, hit, hit. And almost all of them were untrue. Some were pretty good, actually. But the most negative -- its horrible, and really I mean so much fabrication.
When you see the rusted out factories and empty buildings here, just remember Hillary Clintons policies and the policies of her people did this to you. Just look at the devastation. Pillowtex laid off 1,125 people, and took their jobs to Mexico and other countries. Freightliner, one of your companies, laid off 500 people in Mount Holly, and moved their jobs to Mexico.
You know, Mexico, I was there three months ago. I met with the President of Mexico, nice guy, really good. Well have a great relationship. But Mexicos like a one-way street. Its a one -- they take the money, the jobs, the factories. You know, we get drugs and unemployment is what we get. Flextronics...
Build that wall! Build that wall! Build that wall!
All right. Its a little early in this speech, but I promise, we will build the wall, believe me.
Little early. I wasnt up to that part but, you know what, I wont be able to shut you up unless I say that, right? We will build the wall and what? Mexico will pay for the wall.
Flextronics laid off 312 workers in Charlotte and moved their jobs to Mexico and China and various other countries. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, there will be consequences.
And we will stop the jobs, because you people have been affected much more than most, from leaving North Carolina. And I have great successful place in North Carolina, in Charlotte, right outside of Charlotte. Right? Trump National, its great. Lot of employees, I pay them a fortune, theyre very happy. They do an unbelievable job. Its a real success.
Look at this -- look at this. My members, I have members, I have -- good. Do I do a good job? Do I do a good job?
Wow, thats fantastic, thank you.
Thats so nice. I didnt know that. Sort of interesting. I bought it for very little. I didnt, you know, I just -- I bought it out of a bankruptcy, its this gorgeous job. They did a good job, but they -- they got caught. And I fixed it, ii spent a lot of money on it, right? I fixed it, and now its so successful and everybody loves it. She said, on schedule, under budget.
Its true, its true. Thank you.
Shes right about that. Thats good. Well, its great to have you here. Thank you very much.
You know, its a great success, and its just a great state. You know, its very interesting, so I have a lot of workers, theyre all over the country. And when I buy things -- though I dont think Im going to doing this too much longer, Im going to be running something else much more important.
But these workers, they travel. Theyre all over and they travel to different place, even to different countries. Theyre great, theyre crews. And theyll come in, and they came to North Carolina. And I said, howd you do, Felix? Howd you do, Leo? How are you? Hows it going? They said, Mr. Trump, when we retire, we want to come to North Carolina. They loved it, its funny, they never said that.
Theyve been to so many different places. So theres something about North Carolina thats special, and that area, that is so good. So we love it.
The theft of American prosperity will end on November 8th, believe me. From now on its going to be America first. If a company wants to fire their workers in North Carolina or in this country, move to another country, and try to ship their product back into the United States, we will apply a 35 percent tax to those .
And you know whats going to happen, right? Theyre not leaving. They wont leave. When that happens, they will not leave. And if they do, thats OK too, cause were going to make a fortune, all right? Although their formula wont work -- their formula wont work. Its so simple to do, its so simple to stop. And these people havent wanted to do it. A lot of reasons. Number one, in some cases theyre not smart. But in other cases, theyre getting so much money from the special interests and the donors that want it to happen because they may own the company, et cetera, et cetera, that theyre not looking for the best interest of our company. And you know what, Im going to have over $100 million in this campaign. I dont care about these people.
You know, the special interests? I used to be the ultimate special interest. I mean in all fairness, I know the other side very well. I also love our country, and our country was going bad. It was going bad. No more deals with Iran where we give them $150 billion back.
Where we give them $1.7 billion in cash. How about that one? You know what that would be? Thats like you fill it up to the ceiling. I tell you what, its hard to believe, so -- so we did this and were happy we did it. And weve created a movement, remember this, like nobody has ever seen in this country before, ever.
Newt Gingrich was on and he was talking, well, if you go back 150 years, there was a movement. You know, Im saying, 150 years. But its -- its been a great honor, I have to tell you. Its been a great honor and a great pleasure, and Ive gotten to know the people of this country, and they are unbelievable.
Theyre unbelievable, right? Theyre unbelievable people. And were going to -- and I say it every once in a while, were going to have Apple and other great companies start making their product in the United States. OK?
Were going to do it. A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and, if we dont get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers, much better. And by the way, just to set the record straight because the crooked media -- you talk about dishonest people, these are the worlds most dishonest people. I believe in free trade -- they have a very low rating right now, folks. Hopefully, Ive helped in that.
You could have done the greatest thing in the world, its like this total thing -- Im looking forward tomorrow to read those newspapers, or Im looking forward to seeing it on television. Something you do really, really well. And then you see it and they say, man, that was bad. Boy, they made that look bad, you know. They are bad people, Ill tell you that.
And they try so hard, they try so hard to protect Hillary Clinton. And you know what? I think the gig is up. I dont think its working any more, dont think its working.
No, its not working too good. We will also immediately stop the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. Thats going to take the rest of your companies out. As part of our plan to bring back jobs, were going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.
Were the highest taxed nation in the world. And were going to massively cut taxes for the middle class. Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes. How can you do it? Were the highest taxed nation in the world. She wants to raise taxes. Not going to happen, folks. Were going to create something thats so beautiful. The biggest since Ronald Reagan -- biggest tax decrease. We will also unleash American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal. Were going to put our miners back to work, and were going to put our steel workers back to work. Our plan will end the EPA, which is a -- hey, look, its all wonderful, but its a disaster. EPA intrusion into your family farms and stop the double taxation of family farms at death. You cant even pass them down to your children. You cant pass small businesses down to your children.
Very importantly, we will also work to rebuild from the damage, in your great state, caused by Hurricane Matthew, that was a rough one. We will take care of our people. Were going to take care of the people of the United States. We will become a rich nation again, but to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees flowing into our country.
Not going to happen. Her plan would mean generations of terrorism and extremism spreading in your schools and throughout your communities. When Im elected President, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.
And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.
Sorry, we have no choice. We have no choice. Right?
A Trump administration...
USA! USA! USA!
Great people.
A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.
Be nice, right? Be nice. It would be nice to have borders, dont you think, right? And we will build the wall, as I -- we will build it.
Itll be a great wall. And the harder they fight, the taller it gets, OK? I give you that, Im telling you. The harder they fight, the tougher it gets. You know, they tried to build a wall in like 06. You know that. And Hillary Clinton was in favor of it. And they couldnt get -- you wont even believe this story -- they couldnt get their environmental impact statement approved. Did you know that?
So here you have China in the South China Sea, building one of the great, one of the biggest fortresses anywhere in the world, ripping the hell out of the sea. Excavators, they say the biggest ever used, ripping the sea. They conceived of the idea -- listen to that.
You OK back there?
No, no, they conceived of the idea, lets say on a Monday night, they started construction on Tuesday morning, right? Now they shouldnt be doing it, theyre not supposed to be doing it. It against everything we sort of have with them. But they -- boy, this is a great group .
Say, whoa.
But China has no respect for us, and Russia has no respect for us, and certainly no respect. Putin has no respect for Hillary Clinton. He dreams -- he dreams of her becoming president. You know who else dreams of Hillary Clinton? ISIS. Because ISIS formed while she was secretary of State in the vacuum that they left. We should have never been in Iraq, but we should have never gotten out the way we got out. And thats -- that was the birth of ISIS, now theyre in 32 countries.
And I watched her during debates, the debates -- did you see she had the debate questions to the other debate. Right?
How about if Donald Trump had the debate questions? Right? The electric chair, right? Headlines, Trump to leave race. We demand Trump get out now. They had Donna Brazile...
She cheated. Did you see her on television? She was unable to speak. Where did you get those questions? But she cheated, and they fired her from CNN, which they should have. But why arent they firing her from the DNC? She cheated. Now, but -- but I have a much bigger question, cause forget Donna Brazile. She gave the questions to crooked Hillary Clinton, right? So -- and this is two or three times, dont forget, they caught them like twice. So they gave the questions, she gave them to crooked Hillary. Why didnt Hillary Clinton report it? Why didnt Hillary Clinton go to some ethics group?  Why? You know why? Do you know why? Do you know why? I know the answer. You want to hear the answer? Because shes crooked Hillary Clinton.
Right, very simple. Very simple. Crooked Hillary.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
And then she does these phony commercials about me, this and that, give me a break crooked Hillary. We received the first ever endorsement from our ICE and border patrol office. First time theyve ever endorsed a presidency.
They tell us the border crisis is the worst its ever been, and I can see that. Although a lot of people are probably flowing in because they think Im going to win, so they say, we better get this done right now. The immigration officers warned in a letter that Hillarys plan is the most radical immigration proposal in United States history. And that it will lead to the loss of thousands of lives, I see that. Its the most radical immigration plan in history.
As secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed many, many of the most dangerous and violent criminal aliens to go free because their home countries, very intelligently, would not take then back. They didnt want killers, they didnt want drug lords, they didnt want gang members. So we fly them into their country, and their country says turn that plane around -- or whatever theyre taking them in. Get out of here, we dont want them, cant blame them. But I promise you that never once -- whether its four years or eight years -- never once -- never once will we come back with somebody in that plane or whatever it may be. When those people get out, theyre getting out.
And theyve hurt a lot of people. Hillary wants totally open borders, there goes your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco...
... where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant, who had been deported probably more than five times. In nearby Landis, North Carolina, 20-year-old, Leanna Newman and her unborn child were killed by an illegal immigrant drunk driver with two prior deportations. Leannas killer had two pair of DUI convictions, three convictions for driving with a revoked license, a conviction for assault, and numerous other charges. And people that knew him said, please incarcerate him. A Trump administration will impose tough mandatory minimum prison sentences for deported illegal immigrants.
Very tough requirements, minimum sentences for deported illegal immigrants who come back into our country. Now, if they come back in and we tell them youre out, good luck, dont come back, but if you come back, its five years. Then if they come back a second time, its 10 years. And then a third time, its 15 years. Guess whats going to happen? Theyre not coming back, right? Theyre not coming back.
Sort of simple. Its amazing what common sense can do, isnt it? We will also cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.
And this crime wave, its a tremendous crime wave, will come to an end. We will repeal Obama-Clinton defense sequester, and rebuild our badly depleted military, which we need so much.
Greatest people on Earth in our military. North Carolina will be a major part of this effort, with new advanced flying beautiful planes. Isnt it nice to have nice, new planes? From Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, anybody know it? Yes.
Marine battalions at Camp Lejeune -- Ive been to Camp Lejeune.
And more troops and resources we will supply for Fort Bragg.
Im honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals, and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. So we have many more coming.
Theyre not thrilled with Hillary, that I can tell you. Our new foreign policy will put America first. Hillary brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya, she empowered Iran, and she unleashed ISIS with the vacuum -- through the vacuum, they came. Remember, Obama called them the junior varsity? Now she wants to start a shooting war in Syria, in conflict with a nuclear armed Russia, that could trigger World War III. She always talks about me.
See what I have is a winning temperament, I have a winning temperament.
Hillary is an unstable person. She is an -- I think shes probably spent $500 million on phony ads. The best thing I have is my temperament. We know how to win -- we know how to win.
You got to know why you want to win too, she has no idea. And she doesnt win. We dont win any more as a country. We dont win at trade, we dont win with our military -- we cant beat ISIS -- we cant beat ISIS. ISIS will be defeated quickly, you watch.
And when we go in an attack a Mosul, if we have to do it -- which we shouldnt because if we got out the right way, we already had Mosul. And Ive been complaining for four months, from the time I heard it. We will be attacking Mosul in four months. I said, no, dont tell me that, maybe theyre not meaning it. The element of surprise, folks. And you see how tough it is now.
Were going to be attacking Mosul because we think ISIL leaders are in Mosul, and if we attack them, we will capture those leaders. Its four months, right? Go. I said, why are they saying this? These leaders -- I mean, look, lets face it, theyre pretty smart people, right? So I said, why are they saying this? Whatever happened to the element of surprise? Why are they saying this? And then three months go, and then two months -- and then I hear, in two months, now its one month. And finally about a week, two weeks ago, I heard next week at about 3:15 were going to start the attack.
These people are stupid, theyre stupid people.
And its turning out to be tough -- its turning out to be tough because theyre tough as hell, and theyre prepared. Theyre using human shields, can you imagine this? This is like not since medieval times. Chopping off heads, drowning people in steel cages. We have to do it. Killing Christians, if youre Christian, forget it. Killing everybody. But why arent we fighting the right way? Why arent we fighting to win? Why arent we -- why arent we doing things right?
Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East that we dont win. And now its our worst nightmare. Weve spent $6 trillion, we could have built our country twice -- we could have rebuilt our infrastructure, our country, twice. And forget about the $6 trillion, the lives that have been lost. The tremendous number of lives.
Is there a doctor in the house, please? A doctor? OK. Yes, take your time, please. Thank you, thank you.
These are great people. Some of these people have been here for seven hours. OK, keep that fan going. Thats good. Thats good, darling. You just take -- take it easy, take it easy. She looks great. Shes going to be good. Do we have a doctor, please? Come on, lets go. Come on, fellas, lets go. Get a doctor. OK? There we go, there we go.
Shes our greatest.
Been here for seven hours that girl.
You take it easy, honey. Just take it easy and come back as soon as you feel good. OK? Were saving your place, and if they dont let you in, Ill get down there myself.
OK.
Trump! Trump! Trump!
OK? Thank you very much, fellas. Thank you, doctor.
Theyve dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe. Theyve left our borders wide open, isnt it amazing? We fight for their borders. We want borders, we fight for their borders, but our borders we leave open. Explain it. And theyve shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries, our politicians. To all Americans I say it is time immediately for new leadership.
So, in concluding, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. Were going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.
Were going to eliminate every single -- every unnecessary job- killing regulation. The businesses, youre -- theyre putting them out of business. And Hillarys going for big, big tax increases, folks. Enjoy them. Were going to cancel every illegal Obama executive order.
Were going to rebuild our very depleted military with the greatest people on Earth working in our military.
And speaking of great people, we are going to finally take proper care of our veterans, OK?
Its about time, about time.
Were going to have school choice, and were going to put an end to Common Core once and for all. Were bringing our education...
We will support the men and women of law enforcement -- these are great people...
... save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.
... and appoint justices of the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
Its time to cut our ties with the failed and bitter politics of the past. Hillary Clinton is the candidate of yesterday. Hey, can we take another four years of Obama?
No!
I dont think so -- I dont think so. Remember three weeks ago? They had 800 people that they were going to deport. Rough ones -- these were rough ones, these were rough ones. They were all set, and somebody made a mistake. Congratulations, they became citizens of the United States of America.
But that wasnt the only mistake. Because of 800, it became 1,800 people. And I said that, he said, send them back. I said, OK, reverse your error, they say, we cant do that, its against the Constitution. I said, really? These people -- these people. We are the movement of the future. Were asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters, and theyre all over the place. You see that on the line.
November 8th, you gotta get and vote. November 8th, November 8th. You can send in some of those little things, but November 8th you got to be there. Whos going to be there on November 8th?
Whos already voted in some form?
All right, get out there. No matter how you feel. If you are so sick, if your doctor gives you the worst prognosis, says, Jimmy or Jane, Im sorry to tell you, but you wont be around for two more weeks. Doesnt make a damn bit of difference, you get out of bed and you vote.
Were going to be around -- were all going to be around a long time, right? Were fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors, and not the special interests.
Were fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a much better future for their children, for their family. With your vote, we are just -- this is so hard to believe -- five days away from the change youve been waiting for your entire life.
Youre going to remember this vote on November, right? Youre going to remember this vote -- thank you.
AUDIENCE; Trump! Trump! Trump!
Thank you. Youre going to remember this vote because November 8th were going to start when -- even the psychologys going to change, even though were not going to be there until January -- middle of January -- the whole psychology is going to change. Our country is going to start winning again. And were going to start winning again.
Its going to be the most important vote, and youre going to be proud of your country again. And hopefully youre going to be proud of your president. And remember this...
... this is a great moment, and Im the messenger, Im a messenger. Its a movement for all of us. Im a messenger, and its a message of common sense, and its a message of so many different things. But its going to be unbelievable. Its going to be unbelievable.
Were going to make America wealthy again.
Were going to make America strong again.
Were going to make America safe again.
And, of course, we are going to make America great again.
