Donald Trump|Interview: Steve Bannon Interviews Donald Trump on Breitbart News Daily|November 8, 2016
Good morning.
Unbelievable energy. They had, we had to have close to 30,000 people in Michigan at 1 oclock in the morning, because, you know, we added it on at the end. Were doing great in Michigan, and theyre great people, and the car business has been taken away and so much has happened. And so we, we were in New Hampshire, which was incredible, that big arena, and it was packed.
I guess, I mean it was just packed, with thousands of people outside. The energy in New Hampshire was unbelievable. And then we hopped on the plane, we flew to Michigan and we got there at about 12 30, almost 1 oclock in the morning, and it had to have close to 30,000 people.
Inside and out. The energy is incredible.
Well, I think you have to do it. You know, were at a tremendous disadvantage in the Electoral College, as you know. She starts off with, like, about 240. Her numbers are around 240 before she starts, and the Republicans are at a tremendous disadvantage.
But I I have a great relationship with New Hampshire, as an example, a great relationship with, you know, various places like North Carolina -- which I guess you could say is purple but I think were going to do great there -- and so many of the others. And I think were going to do fantastically in Michigan. Michigan is a, you know, the cars, that industry was ripped out of Michigan, so much of it, and moved to Mexico and other places, and the people understand. And Ive been talking about it, Alex, for five years.
You know, I got the Man of the Year in Michigan about five or six years ago, and in my speech I was talking about that. It had nothing to do with it but I was talking about it. And they know how I feel. And then the polls started coming out, as you know, and we are up, I think, two points in Michigan, which is shocking to people because, you know, in theory that was a very blue state, very blue.
And she heard about it and she went there last night too. But shes not gonna to stop, shes not going to stop whats happening to the state. So were, we seem to be doing, and there are some others, we seem to be doing very well in certain blue states. Maybe a lot of them.
We have a lot of different things. First of all, we have to strengthen our borders, we need border security, we have to start building up our military, we have to take care of our vets. We have to immediately repeal and replace Obamacare. So important.
It is such a disaster, Obamacare. And youre saying it, Im sure its a big, you know, I know its a subject of you, that you guys cover a lot. But you see the rate increases, the premium increases are going. You know in, as an example, Arizona 116 percent increase.
Minnesota, 60 percent. You have these increases all over the place. And, you know, it came up just before the election, but everyone was suffering and they all understand. But it seemed to be a very big subject.
I think its one of the reasons that we are doing so well, the Obamacare. Its a disaster and its no good, it doesnt work. I mean, you cant even use it, the deductibles are so high. So we will repeal and replace Obamacare, and well get a health care thats fabulous, thats, like, great.
And thats up for a fraction of the cost. This is crazy.
Yea. I think were gonna to do much better with Hispanics and Latinos than anyone expects. Theyre great people and I think were going to do very well, and its already been borne out. I mean, as an example, last week I received the primary award from the Cuban Bay of Pigs association, and they gave me this incredible award because of what I do and all.
And you know, thats an indication were -- with the Cubans. I can tell you, were, like, at 85 percent. But I think were gonna to do very well with the Hispanics and, frankly, with the African-Americans. I think were doing really well.
You see whats going on. And shes not doing well. Shes very uninspiring and she is not doing well at all. So it will be a very interesting evening I think.
Dont you think?
Yea, called deplorables, irredeemable. You know, a few little beauties like that. Look, I think she would not be a good president. I think that shes not an inspiring person.
Our country is very divided, as you know. Were gonna bring great unity to the country. I think were going to do a fantastic job. I know were going to do a fantastic job with jobs.
We went to Michigan last night, you heard it was incredible. We had, I mean, there had to be close to 30,000 people there, and it was at 1:00 oclock in the morning. And, you know, they want their jobs back. They want their auto industry to come back.
And, you know, its left, a lot of its left for Mexico. Its leaving as we speak. So I think that unity is very, very important. I agree with her on that.
I just dont think that she is going to be able to unify this country.
