Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump With Emmanuel Macron At Expanded Bilateral Meeting|April 24, 2018
Thank you very much, everybody. Please. We were going to have a short little meeting, and it turned out to be a long meeting, and it could have gone on for another two hours.
We discussed a lot of things, a lot of problems in the world, a lot of problems that we think can be solved. But weve come a long way, just the two of us, I think, as understanding. We talked about Iran; we talked about Syria. We talked about a lot of subjects that really are big, big, hard situations. And we think we have solutions to a number of them.
So were going to continue that now, and then Emmanuel and myself will meet again, I think, after this meeting. But we wanted to get the opinion of some of the experts in the room. We have great experts on both sides, so we wanted to get the opinion of some of the experts.
Very good numbers are coming out on our businesses. Youre seeing the numbers that are getting released on our companies and our businesses. Theyre very strong. The economy has been really incredible. Unemployment, now, is at the lowest point ever in history in many, many states. The states were enumerated last night. Late last night the numbers came out. And weve hit the lowest unemployment numbers in many decades, in some cases. And in some cases, the lowest numbers, period.
It was just reiterated that unemployment for African American families -- its been the best in history. For Hispanic families, the best in history. For women, the best in 18 years. And thats very close to going much higher than that. So its really something very special. So were very happy about that.
The President and I are working on trade. The trade with France is complicated because we have the European Union. I would rather deal just with France. The Union is very tough for us. They have trade barriers that are unacceptable. Our farmers cant send their product into the European Union easily as they should. And we accept their products. So we have to make a change, and they understand that.
And were negotiating -- Wilbur and Steve and everybody -- were negotiating with the European Union. But its been very unfair for a long time. We had a trade deficit with the European Union of $151 billion last year. Thats unacceptable. This has been going on for many years, and thats unacceptable.
The Treasury Secretary, Steve Mnuchin, will be going to China in a few days to negotiate on trade. I think China is very serious; were very serious. And we have no choice but to be very serious. You know weve put on very substantial tariffs, and that will continue unless we make a trade deal. I think weve got a very good chance of making a deal.
As you know, theyve just stated -- President Xi, a terrific guy and a friend of mine, but hes representing China, and Im representing the United States. President Xi made a speech four days ago where he said that China is going to be opened up. Because its not opened up right now. They trade with us; we cant trade with them. They did $504 billion last year, and we did $120 billion. Thats a tremendous imbalance, and we cant have that. So were going to have a delegation, at their request, go to China. They came here recently, and were going there. And thatll be good.
European Union, by the way, we are going back to that. Were negotiating with the European Union. They had their representatives come here. And I think were negotiating very, very seriously.
NAFTA, as you know, is moving along. They have an election coming up very soon, and itll be interesting to see what happens with that election. But were doing very nicely with NAFTA. I can make a deal very quickly, but Im not sure that thats in the best interest of the United States. Well see what happens. But were doing very well.
In South Korea, on our trade deal, were doing very well. And as far as North Korea is concerned, we are going to be having a meeting with Kim Jong-un, and that will be very soon. We have been told directly that they would like to have the meeting as soon as possible. And we think thats a great thing for the world. Thats a great thing for North Korea and South Korea and Japan and France and everybody.
So were having very -- very good discussions. Kim Jong-un, he really has been very open and I think very honorable from everything were seeing. Now, a lot of promises have been made by North Korea over the years, but theyve never been in this position.
We have been very, very tough on maximum pressure. We have been very tough on, as you know, trade. Weve been very, very tough at the border. Sanctions have been the toughest weve ever imposed on any country. And we think it will be a great thing for North Korea and it will be a great thing for the world. So well see where that all goes. Maybe it will be wonderful and maybe it wont. And if its not going to be fair and reasonable and good, I will -- unlike past administrations, I will leave the table.
But I think we have a chance of doing something very special with respect to North Korea. Good for them, good for us, good for everybody. And with that, thank you all very much. Mr. President, would you like to say something?
Its true.
Well, we have had a great relationship on just about everything. And too bad its not just us doing the negotiating for the rest of the world. But we have had a great relationship.
And our trade situation with France by itself has been very good. The trade product and the trade deals that we do with France -- unfortunately, the European Union represents, to a large extent, France -- and weve had a pretty unfair situation with the European Union, but a very fair one with France. So that will continue. That will always continue.
We will always be very close to, really, our oldest ally, when you think of it. France is our oldest ally. And we will -- we are going out of our way to do that.
I think weve really had some substantive talks on Iran, maybe more than anything else, and were looking forward to doing something. But it has to be done, and it has to be done strongly. And theyve very much been butchers and we cant allow that to happen.
So we understand each other, and well see how that comes out. And we could have at least an agreement among ourselves fairly quickly. I think were fairly close to understanding each other. And I think our meeting, our one-on-one, went very, very well. I hope you feel the same way.
Thank you very much, Emmanuel.
