Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Waukesha, WI|September 28, 2016
Wow.
Thank you. Thank you.
A lot of people outside cant get in, but we honor those people. Is that correct?
Great to be in Wisconsin. No place like being in a Trump rally, do we, Ray?
And...
And no place safer than being at a Trump rally.
You probably saw a recent Reuters poll, had us tied in Wisconsin, up in others, and were just -- in Iowa, we just got the number from Reuters also. Were 10 points up in your neighbor, Iowa.
And a new post-debate poll that just came out, the Google poll has us leading Hillary Clinton by two points nationwide.
And thats despite the fact that Google search engine was suppressing the bad news about Hillary Clinton. How about that? How about that?
On November 8th, were going to win this state and were going to win back the White House. Were going to make America great again. Believe me.
By the way, great numbers out of Ohio, great numbers out of Florida, great numbers out of everywhere.
North Carolina just came in with some great numbers. Were going to have some fun. This is going to be an interesting -- this is going to be an interesting 40 days. Look at all these people.
Its going to be an interesting 40 days.
Its going to be a victory for you, the American people.
Were going to end the Clinton corruption and restore dignity and honesty to government service. I dont know if you watched today, the hearing. It was disgraceful. It was disgraceful.
Hillary Clinton is an insider who fights only for her donors and for herself. Im an outsider and Im fighting for you, believe me. I am fighting for you.
One of the first things were going to do is restore law and order to our country. We have to do it.
Our good friend, Sheriff Clarke, with us tonight. I want to thank him for being here. And I want to thank our great mayor of New York, Rudy Giuliani. He did a great job, so loyal.
New FBI statistics just released show that homicide rose 15 percent last year in Americas large cities. Its the largest single- year increase in 45 years, more than three -- youre right.
More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January, short period of time, 3,000 people. Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington D.C. and more than 60 percent in Baltimore. Across the entire nation, for cities of all sizes, small and large, the homicide rates rose by more than 10 percent last year.
I assume theyll fact-check this but I got it right out of the books.
You know they even said I was wrong when I said that Hillary Clinton is going to allow 500 percent more people come in from Syria and other parts than Obama. They said hes wrong. Hes wrong. He lied. Hes wrong. It wasnt 500 percent more. It was 550 percent more.
So anything they can do. Oh, is the media dishonest. How dishonest are these people?   how dishonest?
Unbelievable.
Not all, not all, but a big, big fat percentage.
So were in a national crisis, yet my opponent, Hillary Clinton continues to attack the police. First she calls our supporters, many of the cops, soldiers, firefighters, deplorable and irredeemable.
Then, in our debate this week, she accuses the entire country, including all of law enforcement, of implicit bias, essentially suggesting that everyone, including our police, are basically racist and prejudiced. You heard that.
And Im standing there in front of this massive crowd of people -- we broke the record. You know that. Im very honored to have broken the record.
And I said to myself, did she really say that? She said it. Its a bad thing she said.
Maybe Hillary Clinton should confine her comments to herself. After all, shes the one who described young African-American men as super-predators, right? Super-predators. And they have not been happy about that for a long time.
How can Hillary Clinton try to lead this country when she has such a low opinion of its citizens? How can she lead this country when she thinks America is full of racists, deplorables, and irredeemables?
Youre not irredeemable. Youre not irredeemable. Youre not deplorable.
Boy, look at this crowd, right into every little corner, even up there. Wow, this is something.
And you know what? Folks, its this way all over the country. Look back there. People trying to get in. Its this way all over the country, because people are disgusted with our government. Theyre sick and tired of whats going on.
When they see our president authorize $400 million in cash for world terrorists and then it turns out to be wrong. It wasnt $400 million. It was $1.7 billion in cash. That whole section of the room wouldnt be able to handle it.
And then where theyre going to deport 800 people last week. You saw this. Theyre going to deport them. I guess they had a reason. They couldnt have been perfect. Theyre going to deport 800 people and something went wrong. And instead of deporting them, 800 people became citizens.
But that -- did you see that?
But that wasnt the bad part. The bad part was that the 800 number was wrong. Now they think its 1,800, not 800.
We are being run by incompetent people. We are being run by people that dont know what theyre doing. And in my opinion, Hillary Clinton is the most incompetent of all.
So true.
By smearing tens of millions of hardworking decent Americans, shes rendered herself unfit to be president. She is unfit to be president.
All you have to do is go back home and watch what happened today when they were talking about the e-mail scandal. And you look at what happened with FBI testifying -- the director. And you look at what happened today with the FBI director testifying and youll say this is not the country that we know and love. Whats happening to our country is a shame.
Hillary Clinton lacks the character and judgment to hold public office. Bernie Sanders said that. She has bad judgment. She has nothing but hostility in her heart for hardworking Americans, of all backgrounds, who just want to live in safety, security, and peace.
The police officers she attacks are the same people, of all colors and nationalities, who race into danger every day to save the lives of totally -- complete strangers, people theyve never met before.
Those fostering the dangerous anti-police atmosphere in this country share directly in the blame for the violence  that threatens our most vulnerable citizens. My agenda reducing crime will benefit all Americans. But those who will benefit most are African- American and Hispanic-American citizens living in high-crime communities.
And people in Milwaukee, theyre going to love Donald Trump. Were going to have safety. Were going to have safety.
Were going to have safety.
Were going to save thousands of lives. The special interests, the arrogant media, and the political insiders dont want me to talk about the crime thats happening in our country and in our inner cities.
They dont want you to know about the hurt and pain thats happening to our fellow citizens. They want me to just go along with the same failed policies that have caused so much needless suffering and so much preventable heartache.
Well, I have news for the people trying to silence me and you and everybody else. Not going to happen.
We -- we -- we -- its all about we. This is a movement, folks. This is a movement like theyve never seen in this country before. This is a movement that theyve never seen before. We will never back down from fighting to save American lives. I will never back down from fighting to save Americas inner cities.
The only people Hillary Clinton ever fights for are the special interests who write checks for her, big, fat, beautiful checks.
I dont know if you saw that -- one report came out that she is going to have commercials, very dishonest commercials. The commercials shes puts on are very, very dishonest. Eh, a little bit of thems right, but for the most part very, very dishonest.
Did you see it? Fifty to one. Fifty to one. I mean even now, I turn on the television, I long to see an Ivory Snow commercial.
Long.
But with her its about follow the money. Remember that phrase. Check it out on the Internet. Check it out. Its really trending big league. Follow the money.
Hillary Clinton has been a disaster for so many communities, but especially for African-American communities. I dont think African- Americans are going to come out and vote for Clinton. Theyre too smart and they know theyre being used. They know it.
They also know that shell do nothing for them once the election is over. She never does and that will never, ever change.
Same thing goes for Hispanic voters. Theyre tired of being used by people like Hillary Clinton, that have no intention of doing anything for them once the election is over. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not working. Theres another shooting in Chicago every two hours, every two hours. Forty-five percent of African-American children under the age of six are living in poverty.
The inner cities have been left behind. Crime is through the roof, public education is a total disaster, there are no jobs, its dangerous to walk down the street with your child. To the African- American community, I say what the hell do you have to lose?
I will fix it. Vote for me. I will fix it.
I will fight for you harder than anyone has ever fought for you before.
Thank you.
Everything you need to know about Hillary Clinton can be understood with that simple phrase that we just used. Yes, crooked is another one.
But I wasnt referring to that. Again, were saying follow the money.
The large corporations who support terrible trade deals that offshore jobs, theyre donating big, big money to Hillary Clinton. Follow the money. The Wall Street investors who have rigged the regulations against the middle class, theyre donating to Hillary Clinton. Follow the money.
The wealthy donors who want to shut down American energy, theyre donating to crooked Hillary Clinton. Follow the money. The special interests who want open borders for cheap labor -- and you see whats happening.
You see whats happening with real unemployment, not the phony unemployment numbers that you read, real unemployment. People that cant get jobs and have given up looking for jobs. Follow the money.
She and her financial backers will say anything, do anything, lie about anything. By the way, did anybody ever lie so much as she lied about her phony e-mails? Did anybody?
In front of United States Congress, by the way. To keep their grip on power, to keep their control over this country, in her campaign for president, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million in contributions from Wall Street and hedge funds.
And, folks, Im spending my money. Im spending a lot. But were being helped by the small donors.
And yesterday, because of the tremendous success of the debate, we raised almost $18 million, which is a record for our campaign.
Amazing. One day, $18 million in one day.
$18 million in one day.
She received $4.1 million for speaking fees from financial firms and she doesnt speak well. Lets face it.
You know, she came here. Instead of this massive crowd thats powering outside, , shell probably have what, 300 people? Well shes coming. Isnt she coming tomorrow or the next? See how many people. See how many people she has.
She and Bill received a total of $150 million in speaking fees from special interests since Bill left office. Its all part of the rigged system being run at your expense. The same groups paying Bill and Hillary for their speeches were lobbying the federal government.
Twenty-two groups paying Bill Clinton for speeches lobbied the State Department while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State.
And dont forget the Clinton contributors who were appointed to advisory boards by Secretary Clinton or all of the favors of access granted to those who provided funds. She even gave up 20 percent of Americas uranium supply to Russia.
To Russia. You know what people do with uranium, dont you? Its called nuclear, 20 percent. They could have never done it without her.
She put the office of Secretary of State up for sale. And if she ever got the chance, shed put the Oval Office up for sale also.
She deleted and bleached -- a very expensive process; 33,000 e- mails after -- after a congressional subpoena was served, not before. She deleted -- remember, 33,000 and bleached after -- after it was -- they get the subpoena, they say oh wow, heres a subpoena, lets delete all of the e-mails.
If youre being sued by your neighbor and you do that you know what happens to you, right?
Thirteen phones -- 13; has -- does anybody in this room, like over the last number of years, has anybody in this room had 13 phones?
OK, a number of them were hammered to death, right? They were hammered. So let me ask you, has anybody, when you got rid of your phone, hammered it? Raise your hand.
One. Oh, theres one guy. What business are you in?
What business -- I want to get him out of here. I dont want to be near.
Her staffers taking the Fifth Amendment -- think of this; over and over and her ringleaders getting immunity deals, OK? Five people, including the guy that put in the illegal server, right? I want the Fifth Amendment. I want immunity.
The reason they get immunity is because they did something wrong. If they didnt do anything wrong they dont think in terms of immunity. Five people.
Folks, Im telling you, nobodys ever seen anything like this in this countrys history in this countrys history.
You want America back? I want America back.
Sad. Its sad. Unbelievable. Its unbelievable but its sad.
Remember this, peoples lives have been destroyed, ruined for one little fraction of what shes done. You can look at General Petraeus. You can look at others. Their lives have been destroyed for doing something so much less, 2 percent, 5 percent, 10 percent.
And you look at what happened with her, its a disgrace. Foreign enemies with easy access to hack her server, thats what happened. People had easy access. It was on other peoples phones. It was all over the place. Very important information all over. Lies to Congress, under oath, about turning over her work-related e-mails.
The American people have had it with years and decades of Clinton scandals and their total corruption. Their total corruption.
This year will be the year the American people say enough is enough. Its going to be.
November 8th, get out and vote.
Hillary Clinton is a vessel for the special interests trying to strip this country of its wealth, its jobs, and its status as a sovereign nation. Does anybody think that our nation is respected like it once was?
Shes a globalist who has made a career of taking jobs from our country and giving them to other countries. I am not running to be president of the world. Im running to be president of the United States.
From now on its going to be America first.
These special interests totally control Hillary Clinton. Shes their chosen representative. You can disregard everything she says and just remember that phrase. Follow the money. Shes there for only one reason, to protect her donors and collect money.
Look, just take a look. Her career -- just look, whats she done for other people. Shes failed in so many different things. And the other night at the debate, it hit me more than its ever hit me. Shes saying what shes going to do here. She couldnt make an answer on the police -- was a horrible answer.
She didnt want to say law and order. She didnt want to go too far any -- so shes trying to weave a little pattern. And I said to myself, you know, shes been talking about these things for 30 years. Think of it, 30 years and nothing gets done.
Oh well, they have a right to do that, dont they?
One person and tomorrow, headlines, protester, right?
Shes failed at everything. She failed in Iraq, in Libya, in Syria, in Iran, in Egypt. She failed on ISIS. In fact, she unleashed ISIS onto the world by leaving a vacuum that should have never been left, along with President Obama that doesnt have a clue.
She failed...
.., in upstate New York, promising 200,000 jobs, but instead the jobs kept leaving. She never produced the jobs. She ran -- Ill never forget it. She ran for the Senate and she talked about jobs, jobs. The day she got elected, that was the end of jobs. She couldnt have cared less.
All she did was name, during her whole term, a post office, a highway, and something else, three names.
She failed the inner cities. She failed women and children. The only people Hillary Clinton has ever delivered for are her donors.
Our campaign is taking on big business, big media, and big donors. Were taking them on for you. Thats why Im into this thing for many millions. Where am I, over $60 million now? Over $60. Oh, oh, am I going to feel badly if on November 8th -- can you imagine?
You know one of the commentators the other day said it doesnt matter if Trump wins or loses. Its been one of the most incredible things weve ever seen politically. He said its a political phenomena .
I said to myself, no, no, no. If we dont win, it will be one of the great wastes of time, energy, and money, certainly in my life. That I can tell you. Certainly in my life. We have to win.
Im not owned or controlled by anybody. My loyalty is to you and to nobody else, you.
Nobody else.
I will fight for you. My economic agenda can be summed up in three, to me, very, very beautiful words. Jobs, jobs, jobs. And were going to bring back our jobs.
We will cut your taxes. Shes going to raise your taxes. We will reduce, substantially, regulations which are killing people and killing the farmers and killing the energy companies. And Ive seen them and they are ridiculous, OK. Were going to cut them. Shes going to increase them.
We are going to negotiate great, great trade deals and were going to do things with NAFTA because NAFTA, signed by her husband, will go down as the single worst trade deal, not in the history of our country, probably in the history of the world. Thats how bad it is.
Were going to unleash American energy and were going to repeal and replace Obamacare, which is a total disaster.
We are also going to end common core and offer school choice to every disadvantaged child, including every poor Hispanic and African- American child in America. We will put every kid on the ladder of American success, a great education and a great job that they love going to early every morning. Theyre going to love it. There is nothing -- nothing like a great job.
The people getting rich off the rigged system -- and remember, I used that a long time. Now its become commonplace, the word  rigged system. I used that when I was winning states and getting less delegates than the people I was beating, but I didnt let it go on for long, did I?
We changed our rigged system, and hence, here we are.
And we are going to make sure that the people throwing all of these hundreds of millions of dollars at Hillary Clinton arent going to get their way, OK?
Our campaign is about breaking up the special interest monopoly in Washington D.C. Were trying to disrupt the collusion between the wealthy donors, the large corporations, the media executives.
Were going to be able to do it. Theyre all part of the same rigged political establishment. They go to the same restaurants. They attend the same conferences. They have the same friends. Actually, Im one of them in a few cases.
Sorry about that.
And they all are in for a big reckoning on November 8th, a big, big, big reckoning.
Thank you.
And thank you, by the way, to Tommy Thompson.
Did you see the whole group of people he produced today? Hes got so many wonderful people. I wont say establishment types, but they are and thats OK. But I want to thank Tommy Thompson. You know, I have to tell you this story. I was here three months ago and I was speaking. And I get a call from Tommy. Hes a great guy. He really is an amazing guy, a lot of energy, lot of energy.
But Tommy was here and I get a call. Don, can I come over and see you? And I was about 15 points down, right? Fifteen. So he calls me just, yeah, about 3:00, and he said can I see you? He comes in, he goes, Don, I really like you. Get the hell out of here.
I said why. He said youre not going to win this state. I said but I think I can. We have unbelievable -- no, he said it. He said but if things change Ill call you, but Im telling you, Don, go to Pennsylvania. Go to Ohio.
I understand, he said go to Florida, where were leading and leading. Go there. Spend your time. Wisconsins going to be tough. Go there. But if anything changes Ill call you, right?
So now what happens, very -- hes a great guy. So I get a call about two weeks ago. Don, time to come back.
Two points. Two points. He said time to come back. He saw one and two, he saw one and three, and Im back. And were going to win Wisconsin.
Were going to win Wisconsin.
But I want to thank him, cause he -- hes brought so many great people into the -- into our whole thing. I mean its amazing whats going on. Government, for us, is going to start working again.
Fixing things is what I do. Just look at my projects in New York and around the world, where I revitalized neighborhoods and really lifted up skylines. And Im not saying that as a bragging thing. The New York Post did a fantastic article recently.
Im saying it because thats the kind of thinking we need in our country. The world is ripping us off, folks. The world is ripping us off.
But thats what I want to do for our country. I want to go into every neighborhood and unlock their potential for all of our people. Not just a group, for all of our people. Together, we can accomplish anything we want, but that means showing up. You got to show up.
I dont care if youre so sick, you get out of bed, you just get out of bed, you crawl into the bathroom, you put on that shirt or whatever youre wearing, get out and vote. Then you can come back to bed and hopefully get better quickly, OK?
Early voting is already underway, right? Wisconsin, right?
You have to knock on those doors. You have to pick up the phone. You have to get all your friends out. We have to watch whats going on, because this is a dirty business. This is a very, very dirty business. You know what I mean. Watch whats going on.
You have to campaign in the streets, spread the love. The love that we have in this room, its going to be spread all over the country. Were going to be united again as a country, all races, rich and less than rich, were going to be united all over the country.
To beat the system you have to lift up your voice, pound the pavement, and get out the vote. Visit our website if you want. I hate to put that in the speech. It sounds so trivial, but I guess its true. Visit our website, OK? You know it.
You have six weeks, right? Six weeks, can you believe? June 16th, coming down the escalator with Melania, you never saw so many reporters. You never saw so many cameras. And I said -- I took a breath, I say we have to do it.
You look at the Iran deal. You look at our military being hurt so badly. Its being depleted. Our jetfighters, they go to graveyards. They go to plane graveyards and museums to get parts because they dont make the parts anymore, theyre so old.
This is the United States of America. We have to rebuild our -- we dont have a choice. This isnt like lets think about it. Our military is depleted. Our people are the greatest people on earth. Were going to give them the kind of equipment, not to use, hopefully that when the enemy looks at us theyll say were not going to mess with them, OK?
We dont want to use it.
We dont want to use it.
So we have six weeks to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true. You have one last magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man and forgotten woman and child in this nation.
Dont let it slip away. We have one chance. This is it. We dont have four more years. We dont have four more years. Theyll start appointing justices of the Supreme Court. Remember that, Supreme Court -- we lost a great one, Judge Scalia. We cant let it slip away.
I dont believe -- I really mean this. I dont believe were ever going to have this chance again. I dont believe. This is it. And its tough. Its tough.
The odds were really against us. Remember the odds. I started at 1 percent. I went to 3 percent. I went to 6 percent. I went to 20 percent. Today somebody put down -- very respected, the odds, 54 percent.
And I think theyre biased.
But I dont say that. I always like to say 40 percent. I dont want to talk about it. Assume its 40, OK? We dont have to brag about odds. Lets assume its 40, OK? Lets go out and win, cause the only thing that matters is to win.
Stand up and be heard, for your family, for your city, for your country. The arrogance of Washington D.C. will soon come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.
On November 8th, were going to show the whole world that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever, ever, ever before, right?
Here are just some of the things that will happen starting in January of 2017. Im going to lower your taxes massively.
Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes and she says it.
Were going to eliminate all of the unnecessary regulations. Some we need -- we need for the environment, we need for safety, but theres so much. Its become a big business. Hillary Clinton wants to add more and more regulation.
Were going to repeal and replace Obamacare.
Were going to unleash American energy. Were going to end illegal immigration.
Were going to build the wall and Mexico is going to pay for the wall, 100 percent.
And were going to have great relations with Mexico. We dont have them right now and theyre ripping us off. I mean their leaders are much smarter than ours, to put it nicely.
Look, we have massive trade deficits with Mexico. Theyre making a fortune. Im not even talking about on the border, whats happening there. We have massive trade deficits. They will pay for the wall, a hundred percent.
Its a one-way street. You saw Ford Motor Company; theyre going to make all of their small cars. You know what that means? All of their small cars are going to be made in Mexico. You look at all of the companies, Carrier Air Conditioning, I could -- I -- I mean, as youre standing here, theyre negotiating deals to take companies out of our country and move them to Mexico.
A friend of mine builds plants. Hes one of the biggest in the world. And he tells me how well hes doing in Mexico. Hes building some of the greatest plants anywhere in the world, in Mexico. What about the United States? Well, not so much.
Not going to happen that way. Were going to reverse it. And were going to have a great relationship with Mexico. And the Mexican people are amazing. I have so many friends. The Mexican people are amazing people.
But whats happening is their leadership and what theyve been doing to us for so many years; its incredible that we can allow people to get away. Were not going to have a country. Our manufacturing is cut.
You go up to New England. You go to New York State, where Hillary Clinton failed so badly. You go to places here. You go to Pennsylvania. You go to Ohio. You go to Florida. Take a look at whats going on.
Were going to also keep radical Islamic terrorists out of our country.
Were going to save the Second Amendment. Were going to support the men and women of law enforcement.
As I said, were going to appoint great justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our highways, our airports, our schools, our hospitals. Were going to rebuild our infrastructure. American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar the skies. And American ships will patrol the seas.
American steel will send skyscrapers into the clouds. American hands will build this nation.
American energy, harvested from American sources will power our nation again. American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American steel into the spine of our country.
I will fight every day for neglected parts of this nation and I will fight to bring us all together, unified as Americans. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together, as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.
Its time to break with the bitter failures of the past and we have had tremendous failures. We dont win anymore. When was the last time you saw our country win?
Look at the ship we had with the people from Iran and their little dinghies circling, circling, taunting, taunting. Or they grab our 10 sailors because theyre a little bit in their waters. Or they fly near our planes. Theyre taunting us. Theyve become emboldened because they dont respect us and they dont respect our leader.
Were going to enhance and were going to really make our country -- and I mean that. And I said it before and Ill say it always -- always because Ive gotten to know the people of our great nation.
We have the greatest people. Were going to make our nation better than ever before. Were going to have an inclusive and prosperous American future. Everybody, inclusive -- everybody is going to partake.
Once more we will have a government of, by, and for the people.
We will make America wealthy again.
We will make America strong again.
We will make America safe again.
And we will make America great again.
God bless you, everybody. God bless you. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
