Donald Trump|Interview: Sharyl Attkisson Interviews Donald Trump on Full Measure|September 25, 2016
Thats true. They want to go in and they just dont wanna say that, because that offends some people, including our president. They dont want to mention the term radical Islamic terrorism under any circumstance, including Hillary Clinton. I laughed this morning when I see her on television saying how shes gonna do this and that.
Shes been there for 30 years, she hasnt done anything. I mean, shes all talk and no action. But she was saying that shes gonna this and she - Im the one thats been talking about this for a long time, as long as youve known me. And this is radical Islamic terrorism.
It has to be dealt with sharply. Its the only language that theyre gonna understand, and this problem that we have now is only going to get worse with weak leadership.
Well, I think that the most respected economists are on my side, to be honest with you. I think that Ive seen tremendous reviews of my tax plan, but they do know, you have to understand, they do know that Im gonna stop these horrible trade deals. Were gonna have trade, were gonna have free trade, but were gonna have real free trade, not free trade, which is a one-way highway out of our country for our jobs and our money. NAFTA is the worst trade deal ever signed in the history of the world, not only the country.
You look at what its done to our states, and you look at what its done to, you know, our country, what its done to us. The jobs are gone, the moneys gone. I go upstate New York, I go to Pennsylvania, I go to Ohio, I go all over, especially for the primaries, Ive never seen devastation like this. Were like a Third-World country.
Those factories were vibrant 30 years ago, and today theyre empty, theyre falling down, theyre collapsing from the rain and the snow. So, no, I think that weve had tremendous reviews. I mean, look, Im gonna lower taxes, Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes. Im going to - thats what I do, I have thousands and thousands of people that work for me and have, Ive created tens of thousands of jobs.
But a lot of people are concerned when I say that Im gonna renegotiate our trade deal, Sharyl. And I understand that theyre concerned, but theres nothing to be concerned about. We lose right now, we have a deficit, in terms of, of all of the trading we do with other countries. We have a trade deficit 800, almost, $800 billion a year.
Were losing more than $400 billion a year with China, in terms of a trade deficit. With Mexico, with Japan, I mean, what are we doing? What are we doing? I, I often say, Who negotiates these deals? So, your establishment people are saying, Oh, gee, you know, let things be the way - I dont think we can let them be the way they are, because our country is being devastated and our jobs are being taken.
Well, I hope so, I mean, my lawyers do it. We give away money, I dont make anything, I take no salaries, I take no - any costs, I have zero costs, and a lot of money goes through the Trump Foundation into charities. Goes to charities, it doesnt go to me, it goes to charities.
With the hundreds of millions of dollars of things, isnt it interesting, and he said hes not even gonna look at it. But we - I think my people do a very good job with it.
Well, I think this, that the press has been very dishonest with me, to a large extent, not all of them, not you, by the way. But the press has been very, very dishonest and when I see it, Im just amazed. At the same time, I will certainly be open to dealing with the press and reporters, but the level of -
No, I dont see that, but a lot of people have done it, and a lot of people, a lot of different businesses have done it. The press has been very, very dishonest. I mean, even recently when I said yesterday, the bombing, and she said, the bombing, and they criticized my use of the word bombing, but not hers and they cut it out, and, I mean, many other things, even over the last couple of days. So, the relationship with the press is - its not a question of good, all I want is honesty.
And if theres something wrong or something bad, I can handle that, but when you do something great, and they try to make it as negative as possible, constantly, its really not a fair situation.
Well, I dont think I wouldve been doing it if I didnt. You know, my question is, is do you really think this was going to happen? And I guess the answer is, I wouldnt have done it if I didnt, you know, Im not looking to lose. And, traditionally, I do well and I win, and I, I, you know, I do a nice job. This has become a very big situation, its amazing.
Whats happened is amazing. You see outside, you see the kind of crowds we have. And you just said something, you ought to show pictures of whats outside, because its true, the press is an example. They never show the size of the crowd, ever.
The only time they show it is, is a little bit of protest someplace within the crowd, then all of a sudden they show, and then people say, wow, what a big crowd that is. But I think the answer is, I would assume that I thought this was going to happen, because I wouldnt have done it if I didnt.
Well, I think its probably changed me, but I havent had a lot of time to think about it, because every day Im campaigning, Ill make three or four major speeches, sometimes in one day, where you have massive crowds and you know that, you see it. Its been an amazing experience. What has been, is that the people of this country are incredible. Theyre looking for hope, theyre looking for change, theyre looking for success, theyre looking for victory.
We dont win anymore, our country doesnt win anymore. We dont win our trade, we cant beat ISIS, we dont win with the military. We have the greatest people in the world in our military, but its depleted. We dont take care of our vets, it looks like the Second Amendments in big trouble.
Certain if I, if I dont win, the Second Amendment is in big, big trouble. Healthcare is a disaster. We dont win anymore, and I will tell you that I think the reason its caught on so much is, were gonna win again, were gonna start winning again. And people understand that and people see it.
To me, being an American is the ultimate, you have to be so lucky to be born into this country. Its the ultimate jackpot. If youre born in America, boy, what an advantage.
Probably not, although it is a great way of communicating.
Well, I dont want to say, because I dont like saying, I dont like telling people what Im going to do. One of the biggest problems we have is, every politician gets upset. Were gonna this, were gonna send troops here, were gonna send troops there, theyre gonna arrive at a certain time of the day. I dont like saying that.
I, I think its a very bad policy to be discussing.
No, I think it takes a certain amount of money and you want to take care of your people, and we end up getting it, but taxes are too high in this country. Im giving a massive tax reduction and Im also getting rid of regulation, we have so much regulation. The tax reduction Im giving is, is tremendous, but, you know what, people are more excited about the regulation cutting. We have regulations on regulations, and, honestly, its gotten out of control, and its really killing our businesses, that I can tell you.
