Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Miami, FL|September 16, 2016
To all of you deplorables.  Thank you, man. Boy oh boy. Were going to have a good time tonight.
Were going to have a good time.  Wow. I love that. I love that.
Look at this. Look what that says. Hold up that sign for the cameras. Wow. Applause] Thats so beautiful. Thank you. Great. Thank you.
That is so nice. And we are doing well in every way. The polls have been incredible. But were doing great.
Its great to be in my second home, Florida.  And in the city of Miami where I have so many wonderful friends and projects and employees. We have an amazing group. And all of you know Trump National Doral and well go there.
Lets go and have some fun.  We have tremendous developments in Miami on the water and Doral in particular has been a tremendous, tremendous thing. So I really appreciate it. I love this city.
I love the whole state.  So, and I have a lot of employees. And Im paying them a lot of money.  And by the way, a lot of African-American employees, a lot of Hispanic employees. Applause] A lot. And theyre very happy. They like Donald Trump. So new polls have just come in.
And were leading in many of the battleground states all over the country.  Including being four points up in a certain state known as Florida.  And the Los Angeles Times has us six points up nationwide. Good poll.
If it werent, I wouldnt be telling you about it, I promise. But come November 8, were going to win Florida. And were going to win the White House. And were going to make America great again. Applause] Its going to be a victory for the people. Its going to be a victory for the workers, the families, the veterans. The veterans. We love our veterans. Applause] And every citizen of this country. Its going to be a victory for those who havent had reason to hope for a very long time. Im campaigning in every community and every part of this country for every last vote.  Im running to be a president for all Americans.
I just had the most amazing afternoon in Little Haiti.  Good place. Unbelievable people. And Im going to be campaigning hard for their votes.
And they are incredible people. Our support comes from all regions, all backgrounds and all walks of life, all. All of them. And by the way, at Little Haiti they presented me with something that I figured Id put on.
Is that OK to put it on?  They gave me that and I love it. I think its great.  Your cops and soldiers -- thank you. I love you too. Applause] Carpenters and welders, accountants and lawyers, young and old, rich and poor, Black, white and Hispanic. But above all, we are together and we are Americans.  We got to pull our country together. Just today I was honored to get the endorsement of recipients of the Medal of Honor, brave people.
And many, many of our most amazing military leaders, generals, admirals, amazing people, real fighters. They really know what theyre doing. We now have the endorsements of more than 160 top generals and admirals.  I didnt know we had that many.
Well, we love them. We also have the support of 16,500 Border Patrol officers.  The first time in the history of the Border Patrol that theyve endorsed any presidential candidate. As well as law enforcement officers, police, all across the country. Applause] In fact, Im very excited to announce tonight that we just received a few minutes ago an endorsement of the largest police union in the country, the Fraternal Order of Police. Number one by far.  Pretty good. Pretty good.
And we have the support of millions of patriotic moms and dads who go to work every day and make our country run. While my opponent slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable...  Boy that second word is tough. You dont hear that as much.
But that means youre never going to come back, folks. And I know youre going to come back. Were going to come back so strong. Were going to be so strong.
Stronger than ever before. Irredeemable. They dont talk about that one. But that was, to me, pretty bad.
I call you hardworking American patriots who love your family and really, really, really love your country. Love your country.  Clintons entire campaign rests on using a single tactic, and its not working very well. She spent hundreds of millions of dollars on phony campaign ads.
And were actually I think probably leading, based on everything were seeing. And weve spent practically nothing. Im proud of that.  And you know what?  Were doing very well.
You know in the old days if you spent less and you had far fewer people and you were leading you got credit. Today they say well, shes spending much more money. Yes, but shes doing poorly, very poorly. But what they do is they smear opponents.
And you look at her history. And they question policies. And they talk all the time about racist, racist. Its the only word they know.
They used it on Romney. They used it on everybody. They use it. When theyre in trouble, they always pull out the racist word.
And they are in very big trouble, I have to tell you.  And for the most part we havent even started spending our money yet. And we have raised a lot of money. And Im putting in my money.
And I put in a hell of a lot of money. In fact...  ... if things dont work out, even though a lot of people are saying this was one of the great political phenomenas theyve ever seen.
Theyve never seen -- they call it a phenomena. I will tell you. If it doesnt work out, it will be a tremendous waste of time, energy and money. And shes angry for even suggesting it. Applause] But were going to -- hey look, November 8 you go and vote. Were winning. Ill tell you what. If you vote, were winning. Applause] Theres no way they can beat us.  Theres no way she can beat us because her people have no enthusiasm whatsoever. Theyre not going to turn out. They dont have the enthusiasm.
Who could possibly have enthusiasm? What are you getting? You turn out winning big league. And I think -- and theyre all saying the Trump people are going to turn out. We have a movement like they have never, ever seen in this country.  And they say in terms of enthusiasm they have never had polling higher.
So I think, I have very little doubt, turnout were going to have a tremendous November 8. Probably well say November 8 plus the next four years and then four years after that, OK?  But the racist word, its the oldest play in the Democratic playbook, and Americans have had enough of it, OK. We get it. We get it.
Ill tell you what, I just -- I told you I just left Little Haiti. The love is unbelievable. Its unbelievable.  Theres no racist.
Theres no nothing. Its love. They want solutions. They want better lives, not more petty attacks from failed and totally discredited politicians like crooked Hillary Clinton. Applause] They want their immigration laws enforced and their border secured.  Lets win on November 8, OK? Thatll be...  Theyre patriotic Americans of all background who want their jobs and their families protected. They want protection.
People who warn about radical Islamic terrorism are not Islamophobes. Everyones an Islamophobe. You mention something youre an Islamophobe. You know they come up with words.
Hey, I went to Ivy League school. I did very well. They have so many new words. Islamophobe.
We have a president, and frankly Hillary, who dont use the words radical Islamic terrorism. And if you dont know what youre fighting, youre not going to fight it very well. And weve proven that. We have decent American citizens who want to uphold our tolerant values and keep our country safe.
We want to keep our country safe. People who support the police, who want crime reduced and ended, and who are not prejudiced. Theyre concerned and loving citizens whose hearts break every time an innocent child is killed violently on the streets, which is happening all over our country. Yet while Hillary Clinton lives behind gates and walls and guards, and raises millions from -- you know look what shes doing with these hedge funds.
Raising millions and millions. I know so many of these people. Give me a break. The hedge fund and the Wall Street donors she slanders and smears with her statements last week.
Working people who just want a fraction of the security enjoyed by our politicians and certainly enjoyed by her. Now you know shes very much against the Second Amendment. She wants to destroy your Second Amendment.  Guns, guns, guns, right.
I think what we should do is she goes around with armed bodyguards like you have never seen before. I think that her bodyguards should drop all weapons. They should disarm right?  Right? I think they should disarm immediately. What do you think? Yes? Yes. Applause] Take their guns away. She doesnt want guns. Take their -- lets see what happens to her. Take their guns away.
OK? Itll be very dangerous. Her comments displayed the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led her to violate federal law as secretary of State, hide and delete her e-mails, destroy her iPhones with a hammer. With a hammer. Thirteen of them. Booing] Put classified information in the reach of our enemies. Lie to Congress. And sell government favors and access through her foundation. Its the same attitude of arrogance and entitlement that explains why she has never taken accountability for the disaster she created in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Iran and all over the world.
Everything she touched, it just didnt work out. Certainly it didnt work out for our country. Its the same reason why she wont take responsibility for her central role in unleashing ISIS all over the world.  Her policies have created disaster overseas and poverty at home.
We see it. Look, we see it. I drove here. We see it.
We see it. Im running to reverse these failures. And they are incredible failures. And create a new American future. Applause] And that future begins with prosperity at home.  My economic agenda can be summed up in three words. And youre going to like these three words. Jobs, jobs, jobs. Applause] One of my highest priorities is to bring jobs into our inner cities. African-American communities have suffered horribly as a result of failed Democratic leadership. Democrats have run these inner cities for a half a century, for 60 years, 75 years, even in some cases 100 years straight. Unabated.
Unbroken. Over 100 years. They control the mayors offices, the school boards, the city councils and the seats in Congress. And all they have delivered is more poverty, more crime and more failing schools.
Sixty-five percent of African-American children under the age of six now live in poverty. More than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago this year. This year. Think of it, since Jan.
1. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not working. Cant get a job. These are the results of the policies embraced by Hillary Clinton.
And everyone knows that if shes elected the inner cities will get nothing but more pain and suffering and crime and heartache.  Amazing people. Amazing country. We have an amazing country.
And honestly you see the crime statistics. Your African- American. You have the inner city problems that have been going on forever. Forever.
You have problems like nobody has. And you look at crime. You look at schools. You look at no jobs.
Look at the worse education. Look how dangerous. You cant walk down the street. You get shot or your child gets shot.
And Ive been saying it. And Ill say it openly and some people like it and some people dont like it. And I dont really care.  What do you have to lose? I will fix it.
Im going to fix it. Were going to fix our inner cities. Were going to make them safe. Were going to bring jobs back.
So to the African-American people within the community, what do you have to lose? It cant get -- honestly, it cant get -- thats so nice. Thank you. It cant get any worse. It cant get any worse.
It cant get any worse.  Thank you.  So nice. Thank you.
Thank you very much. It cant get any worse, the crime, the jobs. No jobs. No education.
Worse education. More unsafe -- you go to Afghanistan, right. We hear Afghanistan. I mean we have cities that are far more dangerous than Afghanistan.
Inner cities. African-American people within that community and outside of that community are going to be voting for Donald Trump in record numbers.  You watch.  Were going to fix it.
Hillary Clinton has been in Washington for 30 years. Her disastrous record speaks for itself. And I have to tell you. When she ran for the United States Senate in New York, we have Upstate New York which is a total disaster, economic disaster.
She said shes going to bring back jobs, jobs, jobs. She -- anyway, she gets elected. We lost our jobs. It got worse.
She didnt do anything. She didnt do anything. She went home. She went to sleep, OK.
She didnt do anything. She didnt do anything. It got worse. Far worse.
Now its a total catastrophe. Just remember that. When she tells you about jobs, when she tells you shes going to fix trade deals, she wouldnt know where to begin. She wouldnt know where to begin.
And besides that, to do that kind of thing, to negotiate great trade deals, to re-enhance our -- I mean look. Our military is so depleted. We have the greatest people on earth. Theyre using equipment thats old.
Theyre flying planes that are old. You see whats happening. Its a depleted military. We have to have a strong military.
We have to take care of our vets.  We have to take care of our vets.  But to do these things you need a lot of energy. And she does not have the energy.
And in my opinion she is totally unfit to be the president of the United States.  The only people that she will deliver for, frankly, are her donors and her special interests. Im going to deliver for you. Believe me.
The American people. Were going to deliver. Youre going to be happy. And those inner cities are going to see progress like they have probably, not probably.
Like they have never seen. You watch. Like they have never seen.  Thank you. Applause] If we lower our taxes and were getting a massive tax reduction -- and by the way, Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes substantially.  If we remove destructive regulations, unleash the vast treasure of American energy. We have so much energy. Its being destroyed, our economic worth.
And negotiate trade deals that put America first. Then there is no limit to the number of jobs we can create and the amount of prosperity we can unleash. There is no limit. Pay off our debt.
Pay down our debt. Reduce taxes. Get rid of regulations. My first day in office Im going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last 10 years. Applause] All needless, job-killing regulations will be immediately canceled. Millions of new jobs will come pouring in. And were going to lift the restrictions on American energy which means at least another half a million jobs each year. They are being destroyed. Applause] And were unable to compete with other nations. Very simple. And thats just the beginning. Also on my first day Im going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare... Applause] It has turned out to be a disaster.  This alone will instantly save another two million jobs. And if you look at your premiums, its through the roof. And by the way, on November 1, just before the election on November 8, new numbers are coming out which will show 40, 50, 60 percent increases.
They want to delay it until after the election because its election -- its a disaster. Its a disaster. And your deductibles are so high that unless you lead a really long, slow, vicious death, youre never going to be able to use, OK. Do you see the deductibles? Youre never going to be able to use it.
Im also going to completely reform our trade deals. Were going to renegotiate NAFTA.  Probably the worst trade deal ever agreed to, signed in the history of the world, not in the United States. Its destroyed our manufacturing in our country.
Its destroyed. And by the way, guess who signed it? Bill Clinton.  You look at all of the places, Florida included. But you look at Upstate New York, you look at Ohio, you look at Pennsylvania.
You look at all of these different places have been destroyed. Absolutely destroyed. You look at New England. Look what happened to New England.
Theyve been destroyed by companies moving out, going into Mexico, firing everybody. Unemployment through the roof. Were going to stand up to China, and keep America out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, another catastrophe.  TPP will be almost as bad as NAFTA.
Nothing can be as bad as NAFTA. Trans-Pacific Partnership will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Itll take your jobs, Ohio. Remember, its going to take your jobs, Ohio.
I tell you that. Michigan. So many places. TPP is a disaster.
We dont need another massive multinational deal, by the way, that nobody on our side even reads, that ties us up and binds us down and doesnt even discuss monetary manipulation and devaluation, which is how China and all these countries are beating us so badly. Not even discussed. And they had provisions in the agreement, and they would take it out because certain politicians didnt want to have them in there. I wonder why.
Another major reform is going to be school choice.  And were going to terminate Common Core. And were bringing our education local.  Ive outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America the freedom to choose the private, public, magnet or religious school of his or her choice. Applause] This will help lift millions of poor African-American and Hispanic children out of poverty, something we are going to do. Since President Obama came into office another two million Hispanic-Americans have fallen into poverty. Its catastrophic. And its totally unacceptable.
To the Hispanic community I say we are going to protect your jobs. Were going to build up your schools. And were going to deliver safety and opportunity for your children. You have no safety.
You have little opportunity.  This week I also rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable quality child care for their children. Ivanka Trump, very much for child care. Shes been talking about that to me for two years, long before I even decided to go through this journey.
And its not easy, I want to tell you. We speak in rooms like this. This is about 100 degrees right now. Thats considered a cool auditorium.
And the reason is we have such big crowds like this one. Look at that. Every single corner.  Unbelievable. Applause] These rooms werent designed for this many people. And it is hot in these rooms. And we stand up here and we talk. And we do two or three and sometimes well be hitting four a day.
Do you think Hillary Clinton can get through one?  You ever see her 18-minute speech? Bomb. Bomb. Bomb. See ya.
See ya. Im going home. No. Were doing it the right way.
And frankly, when they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on advertising I dont have to because I do it the old fashioned way. I come into your neighborhood, right.  Its a lot cheaper. Its a lot harder work, but its a lot cheaper. Applause] Very true. Very, very true. On policy after policy were going to provide opportunity, prosperity and security for all Americans. Were also going to stand with the Cuban people in their fight against Communist oppression. Applause] No, were on the right side. Great people. Theyre great people. The presidents one-sided deal for Cuba and with Cuba benefits only the Castro regime. Booing] People are very unhappy about it. You know whats interesting? When he landed the plane recently in China, right, they refused to give him a stairway out of Air Force One. Now that is a first in the history of Air Force One. So he used basically the mechanics stairs.
Thats the stairs they drop down to get the mechanics up to fix the light bulb, right.  When he landed the plane in Saudi Arabia, which we protect. Without us they wouldnt be there for two months. He landed in Saudi Arabia.
He wasnt greeted by the top officials. Now what would I have done in those two cases? Bomb. Take me back to Washington, Jim. Lets go. Applause] Right. Lets go.  Lets go, Jim. Get going.
Close those doors. Were going home.  Now with Cuba, with Cuba we land in Cuba and theres no Castro to greet him. The big leaders werent there to greet him.
And I have a lot of Cuban friends. But you would have all done the same thing again. Jim, lets close those doors. Were going home.
Right?  Right?  Lets go, captain. Were going home. Were going into Washington. Maybe well head into Miami actually.
Thats not a bad idea.  Terrible. Thats three. Three.
Saudi Arabia, Cuba, China. Air Force One has never been treated so badly in its long and incredible history. Air Force One used to land and people would respect the people inside. And theyd come out and thered be all sorts of hoopla.
Not anymore. Its unbelievable. And these are countries that are benefited by us greatly. So we have to make great deals before we do anything with Cuba or anybody else, right.
Were going to make great deals. Youll be happy. Youre going to be happy, I tell you. How many people are from Cuba here? Come here.
Tell me.  Cuban. Cuban. Good.
Do you agree with me? Do you agree?  Well do it. But well do it with great deals. And well do it with democracy. And well do it the way we have to do it.
OK? Well do it the right way. Where is Ms. Delgado? Does everybody know? What a great -- where is she? She is so amazing. A.J.
Where is A.J. Wow, shes so -- shes become a tremendous star. Tell you one thing, when shes representing me I wouldnt do it anyway, but I can. Turn off the television.
Im well protected. Thank you. Great job. Thank you very much. Applause] Thank you, A.J.  But all of the concessions that Barack Obama has granted the Castro regime were done through executive order, which means the next president can reverse them. And that I will do unless the Castro regime meets our demands. Not my demands, our demands.
You know what the demands are.  Those demands will include religious and political freedom for the Cuban people.  And the freeing of political prisoners. The freeing of political prisoners. Applause] Right? Am I -- is that right?  Oh boy. Oh boy. What energy in this room. What energy. Applause] A lot of energy.  Youll be very happy, my Cuban friends. I have so many friends from Cuba. Incredible people.
So lets also talk about a place called Venezuela.  They -- now whos here from Venezuela? Or related in some -- not too many. Whoa. Whoa.
Whats going on? Not too many? Friend or foe? I think hes friend.  I think hes friend.  No, hes OK. Hes OK.
By the way, is there any place more fun to be than a Trump rally? You tell me.  Right?  Tell you. We have a lot of Venezuelans around Doral, the Doral section, right. And its a beautiful, vibrant -- this is an amazing place.
But they are really having trouble over in Venezuela. But Miami is filled with hardworking, incredible Venezuelan people.  But its been hurt very badly by Socialist Venezuela. And the next president of the United States must stand in solidarity with all people oppressed in our atmosphere.
And we will stand with oppressed people. And there are many. The oppressed people of Venezuela, they are yearning to be free. They are yearning for help.
The system is bad. But the people are great. Great.  They are great people.
Here in America Ill push to expand freedom for all of our citizens. Im going to lower your taxes so substantially.  Were getting rid of all of those regulations on business. So many small business owners here, I know five of them.
One of them was small business now hes big business. Im proud of him. Hes right here. But were going to get rid of those terrible, terrible regulations.
He just said to me, and the thing that surprised me most, were bringing business tax rates down from 35 percent to 15 percent. And yet...  ... itll be the greatest cut, I believe, in the history of our country.
But I will tell you what surprises me tremendously is that the people that have these cuts, theyre more concerned with regulation than even a big tax decrease because regulations are choking and killing our businesses and stopping our businesses from hiring people, jobs. So Im going to appoint justices of the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.  Im going to rebuild our depleted military. Were going to take care of our -- the vets.
Whos a vet? Whos a vet?  Where are my vets? Where are they? There they -- OK. Now theyre standing up. Now they -- I know we had a lot of vets here. Thank you, fellas.
Thank you very much.  Were going to take care of our vets. Were going to save your Second Amendment. Do you know if you look at some of the things, the catastrophes -- you look at Orlando.
You look at San Bernardino. You look at so many different -- you look at Paris. The toughest gun laws in the world, they have it in Paris. These thugs, these animals walked in and they just go bomb, bomb, bomb.
Nobody had guns on the other side. If there were guns on the other side, just a few of them, number one, probably if they knew, they wouldnt have attacked. And number two, even if they did attack, it wouldve been a whole different story. One hundred thirty people killed.
People massively injured, still in the hospital. Their lives are just destroyed. And if they had protection, if they had guns on the other side, with the bullets flying the other direction, it wouldve been a whole different story. So were going to protect your Second Amendment.
And Im going to stop illegal immigration and drugs from coming into our country.  And yes, we will build a wall. Well build a wall.  We will build a wall. Audience Chants "Build a Wall"] Whos going to pay for the wall?  One hundred percent. One hundred percent. And were going to be renegotiating NAFTA and our terrible trade deals. Were going to make great deals out of horrible deals.
And if we cant renegotiate the deal because the other side is so, so happy with it, were going to terminate the deal and well start all over again, folks. Well have new deals. And theyll be much better deals. And theyll be two-way streets.
The traffic, itll be coming our way. Its a one-way street out of the United States for our jobs and our money. You know I always say we get the drugs they get the cash. Thats the deal, folks.
No good. Theyre building in Mexico right now, and Mexicos just one example, some of the greatest plants. A friend of mine builds plants. And he tells me all the time.
I called him up the other day. I called him up six months ago, told me the same thing. Nothing changes. Ford.
They just announced yesterday theyre moving their Small Car Division, the whole thing, into Mexico.  Thats on top of spending billions and billions of dollars...  And then you wonder why Im winning in Michigan. Because Ive been telling the people in Michigan.
Ive been telling the people in Ohio for five years that this is happening. And our politicians dont do anything about it. And Hillary Clinton will never do anything about it. She doesnt have the capability to do it.
We will rebuild our roads and bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals. American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar in the sky. Theyll soar. Applause] And American ships will patrol the seas. American steel will send new skyscrapers right here in Miami into the clouds. But itll be American steel.  American hands will rebuild this nation.
And American energy mined from American sources will power our energy. And well take care of our steel workers. And well take care of our miners who have been destroyed by this administration, destroyed.  And Hillary Clinton has already said shes going to put the miners out of business.
Were going to take care of our miners. Theyre amazing people. American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American steel into the spine of our country. Applause] I will fight for every neglected part of this nation. And I will fight to bring us all together as one people. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one flag.  Its time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous American future.
Were not prosperous anymore. We owe $20 trillion. We have a president who in seven-and-a-half years has doubled the debt. Our countrys in trouble.
A lot of people dont know it, but our countrys in trouble. And were going to make sure that trouble never comes. Let me tell you.  Jobs will return.
