Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Rio Rancho, New Mexico|September 16, 2019



Wow. Thank you. Thank you, New Mexico. Thank you. We love being with you, we love being with credible people, credible people. Thank you very much and I'm thrilled to be here in Albuquerque, with thousands of hardworking freedom, loving American patriots. Thank you. We're all united by the same love of our great country and by the way our country is doing great.

You see it the same devotion to family and the same profound faith that America is blessed by the Eternal grace of Almighty God. Goodnight to that person tomorrow, they'll say massive protest. Now one person just going home to Mommy a little bit sooner, but we're bound by these convictions. We will campaign for every vote and we will win the great state of New Mexico and by the way you have thousands and thousands of people outside who can get in. We love you, we love you, we appreciate it. We try to get the biggest arena.

We can get and then never big enough frankly felt something got. You know I always say 2016. I don't know if there'll be another 2016, but right now it's like a great tree or a great plant. You plant it and it has to take hold. We have to win 2020 we're doing some every day and you know as well as I do we're battling against the corrupt establishment of the past and we're achieving historic victories for the American people, we're winning again we're winning again and we're winning big we're winning big.

Crucially, for your state, we have ended the last administration's war on American energy and since by election, natural gas production. Big story today in New Mexico has increased by 40 percent for, and that means great wages and it means jobs and that's why you're breaking every single record in your state's book, crude oil production in New Mexico has more than doubled and going up a lot higher.

Very quickly on your state's energy revenues are up by nearly two thirds think of that two thirds and that's in a short period of time, give me a little bit more time. Ok, the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world. This means more jobs, higher wages and American energy independence, which is what we have you know a few years ago, we had a problem, like you saw two days ago in the Middle East.

We would have been in a panic, although not if I were your president, we never panic. We don't want to panic, but a few years ago they would have been in a panic. Today we had a lot of oil. We got a lot of gas. A lot of oil gas, we don't have to send too many boats over there. You notice the other day. They were saying.

We don't see too many American ships anymore. You know why? Because we don't need we're independent as independent as we want, and we are now a net exporter of energy revenues from energy production provide up to 25 percent of your state's budget and going much higher in the very near future and they've generated nearly a billion dollar Budget surplus in New Mexico.

Thank you very much, President Trump. Thank you now, under the Green New Deal that all goes away that all goes away. It all goes away. You can forget it. No more cowers, no more airplanes! No more trips, a single car make it electric single car you're not allowed to travel more than 162 miles. They'll call us the hermit nation, we'll never leave our house now it's crazy, but that's OK. I don't want to bring it up because I don't want to do it too early, maybe they'll change.

I don't want to change, but think of it for you and for Texas and for so many other places they want to get rid of your energy. I mean explain that one explain that yet every major Democrat running for president, they want to abolish your production of oil and natural gas. In other words, the Democrats want to completely annihilate New Mexico's economy.

The Democrats want us to be subservient to foreign producers. They want us to be at the mercy of rogue regimes, that's not happening anymore. It's been a long time. It's been a long time. It's not happening anymore, but Democrats will never get the chance, because New Mexico will never give them that chance under this administration.

America is working again, America is winning again and America is respected, again like it has, and I can tell you because I meet so many of the leaders and their presidents and their kings and queens, and the prime ministers and they're everything dictators every once in a While every once in a while, you get a rogue dictator and I'll tell you they always start off.

Today I had the crown prince of Bahrain and they come in and they say sir I'd like to congratulate you on what you've done with the economy of the United States. It's a model for the entire and earlier today do we have any baseball fans right right. You know what I'm saying, but earlier today in the White House, I had the honor of awarding the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

That's the highest civilian award to someone who truly embodies the American dream: baseball legend, the greatest by the way, the greatest relief pitcher of all time. You look at those records, mariano Rivera. It was something the Yankees won a lot of World Series because of Mariano, a great guy. We gave him the medal done so much for charity.

The fantastic man, fantastic family was a beautiful day at the White House, so good. My administration is fighting to empower all Americans to reach their dreams and achieve their potential. We have created six million new jobs since Election Day. The fake news would never have allowed us to say that during the campaign, even as a projection, unemployment recently reached its lowest rate.

In over 50 years, more than 7 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Nearly 600,000 Americans came into the labor force last month alone. Think of that wages in your state, New Mexico are growing at a rate of much more than 3 percent a year, which is unheard of 20 years ago, and I used to say during the campaign you go back it's hard to believe.

I'm here almost three years, can you believe our time is flying? Can you believe I don't know about me, But you look so much better than you did three years ago, you're wealthier and even with the me too movement. We can't say this, but I'll say it anyway: you're better looking, including the men, including the men, now you're, all looking good since my election, the number of new business applications for New Mexico has increased by almost 30 percent, more than any state in the United States.

Think of that more than any state in the United States, so essentially that saying you're in a certain category, which is a very important category, you're doing better than any state in the United States. How do I lose New Mexico? Explain that one right? How do we lose that one and yet, for whatever reason, it's been quite a while, since the Republican won this state, but we're going to win the state, I think we're going to win the state yet to see the people all the way in from the airport That was a long drive by the way.

Thirty five minutes -- that was a long drive, but all the way in we had people and they were waving and I didn't see any negative hand gesture right. No, I think we're going to do great here and we're here for a number of reasons, but we're here, because we really think we're going to turn this state and make it a Republican state.

Yes, sir, they marked the beginning of the Hispanic Heritage Month, who's Hispanic here, Latinos for Trump credible people, but we have much to celebrate unbelievable when you think the unemployment for Hispanic Americans is right now, at the lowest level ever recorded in the history of our country. Hispanic American poverty reached a brand new all time low in history and after years of stagnation that you know very well wages for Hispanic Americans are rising really fast up nearly 8 percent.

Since my election, those are unheard of numbers and median income. Think of that median income for Hispanic Americans surpassed fifty thousand dollars for the first time ever. That's your median! That's not bad! That means you're, wealthy and you're getting wealthier fast. I just want to tell you it's an honor, but you know when I'm on the debate stage debating one of these far left radical Democrats, whoever it may be, and they start telling you what they're going to do for you and you say, but we have the Best numbers every category that we've ever had Hispanic Americans excuse me New Mexico as a whole.

We have the best numbers african-Americans, the best numbers that we've ever had in the history of our Asian-Americans, the best numbers that we've ever had in history, women, the best numbers that we've had in 71 years, we're working night and day to deliver a future of limitless Opportunity for our nation's Hispanic American citizens, including millions and millions of extraordinary Mexican Americans who enrich our society and strengthen our country, serve in our military and contribute immensely to our shared American family.

And I want to just tell you that Mexico is doing a great job. For us on the border -- and I want to thank the president of Mexico and that's very interesting -- I hear everybody screaming Well, you know we're building the wall and it's going up and it's going to and if you think that's easy with the Democrats who control the House we have to take it back, but if you think it's easy but we're building a lot of well we'll have almost 500 miles of wall built by the end of next year and it's making a big 500. But you know we want a big case.

Two months ago, in the Supreme Court that allowed us to do what we're doing this has bee.n I'll tell you what ready another president would have given up a long time ago. We don't give up so we're building the wall. The Army Corps of Engineers would do it a beautiful job. It's a great it's a great structure, great structure, you're going to have to really want to get over that wall to do it, but you know it was very interesting because not too long ago I saw where the Hispanic American, the Hispanics were up with me in A poll 17 percent -- and everyone said how is that?

How was that 17 percent up by 17? I won't even tell you what the final number was, because they won't believe it, but you're going to see what the final number. But you know why? Because the Hispanic Americans they understand, they don't want criminals coming across the border, they don't want people taking their jobs, they want to have that security and they want the war.

They want the war and we have a man in the audience. Who is, I think, the best dressed man in this entire place, including me right here. Look at him come in. Look at him. Look at this guy and he's been to a couple rallies to average you out. We have some people, a group of people the other day. You know we had a victory in North Carolina.

That was unbelievable. Two of them, one of them was going to be very, very close is another one of my friends. Thank you. I like that beautiful red tie you're wearing, but we had a victory. Two victories North Carolina where one was 17 points down. Three weeks ago we got involved. We started sending out lots of different social media messages.

We did a couple of little robo calls, but the big thing we did a speech the night before the turnout was beyond belief and instead of being down by 17 points, he easily won the election 4- or 5,000 votes Dan. Thank you Dan. Thank you. Dan Bishop and Greg Murphy was up a couple of points and he ended up winning.

I don't not ask the media, but they won't give me how many what did he get? You know like 20, 21. He won by a lot. He won by a lot. I'd ask that, but we're not going to get a straight answer. They were not happy I'll tell you Tuesday, night. The fake news was not happy, you know they had their studios. All built CNN had their A-list talent, they don't have a list talent, but they had the best they could and they were all set.

This was going to be the end of Trump because this man was going to lose, but he turned out to be tough and smart and in all fairness I helped a lot to and toward the end of the night they started. Dismantling that studio, probably would have been there for four weeks. This is the end, but we had two great victories congressional victories on Tuesday night, and it was something that one gentleman won by a number that nobody thought even possible so much and the other one a race that he was way way way back.

In fact, I shouldn't tell you this, but my genius is my people, some of those people standing right there right some of them right there. They said, Sir, don't get involved in that race. You can't come back from 17 points. It's too much, I said, But you know I really like the guy. I think he's great. Let's give it a shot, they say, sir, if you lose, they will never ever it'll be much worse.

I said, let me tell you, I know them very well whether I help him or don't help him it's going to be the same. It's going to be a disaster, so let's help them and we campaigned and we worked hard right. They said, don't do it, sir. Don't do it, please don't do it, sir it'll be very embarrassing. I said. No, I don't mind being embarrassed.

I don't mind being embarrassed. We're also very proud that unemployment among Native Americans has reached the lowest rate in nearly two decades and we're building an amazing future for citizens of every background race, religion, color and creed. And that's what we have that's what we have race: religion, color and creed.

But the radical left Democrats want to demolish everything that we've gained. They want to raise your taxes, they want to bury you in regulation. They want to take away your health insurance, 180 million Americans they want to erase American history crush religious liberty, indoctrinate Our students with left wing ideology and left wing Democrats want to confiscate your guns and eliminate your God given right to self-defense.

You know that as your president, I will never allow them to take away your liberty, your dignity, your Social Security, and I will never ever allow them to take away your sacred right to keep and bear arms. The Left tries to threaten bully, intimidate Americans into submission. They use Democrat prosecutors and phony congressional committees whenever they can they'll do whatever they can to demean you to libel.

You they try to blacklist coerce, cancel or destroy anyone who gets in their way. Look at what they're doing today to Justice Kavanaugh, look at what that. Did you see the New York Times? Did you see what they're doing? Did you see what Democrats they're calling for his resignation, they're calling for his impeachment and the woman involved said she didn't know anything she does, but they still so the New York Times had to put out a major apology and they had to change their story.

The woman said I don't remember that cable and they still want him to be impeached, and I just put out a statement and he's a great man by the way, great talent, a great brilliant man, Kavanaugh just put out a statement on social media. That said, I don't think they'll do it, but they should for the good of the nation.

I call for the resignation of everybody at The New York Times involved in the Cabinet Office here stone and, while you're at it, the Russian, which John talks, which is just as phony as story they've taken the old gray lady. You know the New York Times for years, the old gray, lady, so procedures they've, taken the old, great lady and broken her down, destroyed her virtue and ruined her reputation.

She can never recover and will never return to greatness under current management. The Times is dead. Long live the New York Times, long live the New York Times and I do want it to live, but they have to be, they have to change their ways. Think of it, they wrote a story about somebody that said she doesn't remember this.

Can you even believe it, and yet all of these radical left crazies are in Judiciary Committee and all of these committees that is set up to hurt the country with all that we have going with Saudi Arabia with Iran with China trade deal with Russia with North Korea, with all that, we have go and look at the cards that we've been dealt lucky.

We won the election in 2016. Believe me, with all that we have going. They say, let's impeach Justice cabinet, one of the smartest, most brilliant students top at Yale, incredible life. Incredible family: let's impeach him, it's a made up story: let's impeach, President Trump! Think of that the Muller report came out thinking.

This is crazy. Muller report comes out., 18 trump haters, liberal Democrats, some work for Hillary Clinton. They found nothing, oh think of it. After two years, they found nothing, they spent 40 million dollars, there's not a person in the room that I couldn't find something on with that they spent they give it. They found nothing, no collusion, no obstruction, no, nothing to stop the far loves campaign of destruction.

You must vote Republican and you're going to get the chance very soon. We're joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders and somebody that's done an incredible job. You ran Michigan for me and, as you know, for the presidential races Michigan had been one in decades and she kept say. Could you come back, sir?

I didn't know who she was. I said Who the heck is the woman in Michigan that keeps asking she said serve you keep coming back, you got to win Michigan. Has it been one in decades, and I won Michigan. Remember that great great november, great great night, donald Trump has won the great state of Michigan and they were going crazy on television.

They were going. That was not a good night for certain people. Remember a couple of people that were crying. I guess they don't like a strong military, they don't like cutting regulations, they don't like low taxes. They don't like right to try. You know right to try all these things. We've done for the vets.

We got a choice. We got choice for the choice. Everybody said it was a we've rebuilt, our military. I told this story for the first time today a general came into my office and my first few weeks you remember it was a little dangerous out there. President Obama left us with a few beauties right and I said to this general: you better be prepared, because this is looking like it could really be conflict and he looked at me and he goes Sir.

We have very little ammunition, I said Say it again and I want to tell you the words very little he didn't use because he was less than that and I said I never want to see a president in a position like that. Well, we may have conflict and a general looks at him and said we have very little slash No ammunition.

I never want a president of the United States to be in that position and since then, three years, seven hundred billion dollars we've spent then 716 billion dollars and now seven hundred and thirty eight billion dollars and our military is by far the greatest in the world. There's nobody that even funds so anyway, no president, should ever be put in that position and by the way, no president should ever have to go through what I've gone through either.

That should never happen. What happened is a disgrace to our country. No president should ever have to go through and I'll tell you what ninety nine percent of them would never have been able to take it. They wouldn't have been able to take it, but we won the great state of Michigan and now we're doing really well, because we've moved a lot of car companies.

I tell Japan, sorry big deficits with all these countries, we're changing it, but you got to get car companies we're building car companies now in Michigan they're not going to be leaving for lots of other countries, including China, including Mexico, they're, going to stay home and they're Going to pay you a lot of money and everybody's going to be happy, but Michigan is doing great and Ronna McDaniel was the Republican Party Chair of Michigan.

So when we won the election, I said, let's get the woman from Michigan to run the RNC and she has done an incredible job. Thank you Ron, a great gentleman who loves the Republican Party co-chairman, Tommy Hicks Tommy. What did John New Mexico Republican Party Chairman, Steve Pearce, my friend, and a really talented guy?

He just gets a hell knocked out of him all the time: brad Parr scowl, what a job he's doing great job, great job and another great friend of mine, somebody that was on CNN and they didn't like him, because he was too positive on Trump. Can you believe it he happens to be Hispanic, he happens to be Hispanic, but I've never quite figured it out because he looks more like a wasp than I do. So I haven't figured that one out, but I'll tell you what there is nobody that loves his country more or Hispanic more than Steve Cortez Steve.

Thank you Steve. Nobody loves Hispanics more. Would you like more the country or the Hispanics? He says the country I'd now. I may have to go for the Hispanics to be on it. We got a lot of Hispanics, we love our Hispanics, get out and vote. You know just before the last election, the Cubans from Miami, where we got a tremendous percentage of the vote close to 90 percent.

They gave me the Bay of Pigs award. Can you imagine right? The Bay of Pigs award and the Venezuelans and the Cubans are all for Trump. I will tell you that they're all for Trump, they like what we do with the help of Steve. I want to thank you very much by the way, and you were incredible on CNN and now you'll get a real job: okay, steve that audience wasn't big enough for you.

Their ratings aren't good with the help of everyone here tonight. We're taking power out of Washington and giving it back to the great people of our country and to the people of New Mexico. We've got a record number of job killing regulations, saving the average American household three thousand dollars.

We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history and what that means is a typical family of four in New Mexico making. Seventy five thousand dollars has seen their tax bill reduced by more than two thousand dollars, and it's one of the reasons that as the world is not doing great, you look at Europe and you look at Asia and China is not doing too well.

I must be honest with you worst Year in 57 years. I'd say: that's a good, but I hope they still like likely and we've taken in tens of billions of dollars worth of tariffs and we've, given those tariffs and by the way, China's eating the tariffs that devalue their currency. The prices are very similar and they're eating.

The tariffs that are the tens of billions, we gave our great farmers because they were targeted by China, because China knows very spot that the farmers love Trump and Trump loves the farmers. I said to our I said to our secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, I said Sonny. How much did the farmers get hit by by China targeting them and pulling back and doing all sorts of things?

You said 16 billion dollars. I said: that's. Ok, we'll take 16 billion dollars out of a much much much larger number we're going to give it to the farmers, so that they're even and I tell you -- the farmers -- do love Trump. They do and to keep New Mexico's farms. Ranches and small businesses in the family, we eliminated the unfair estate tax or death tax so that you can now give your farm on your ranch to your children.

If you don't, like your children, don't do it, but when it's your time to kick the bucket, you worked hard, you have great kids, you love your kids they're taken care of you. You really love them. It's a great thing! If you don't love them, don't even listen to the last line because it won't matter, don't leave it to them.

If they're not good, leave it to charity, Leave it to something else, don't get it. I know a guy can't send his children, the horrible horrible human beings they're a little older now, but they're horrible human beings. He wants to leave his wealth. They said. Why would you leave that they don't even like you, but on the assumption that you love your children, you'll be able to use small farms and your ranches and things you'll be able to leave them to your children.

Your children won't have to go out and borrow a fortune to pay tax. They won't be losing it to the banks. Five years later, we got rid of it. That's a big deal. Thank you. Thank you. Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker, pro jobs, pro family pro growth and 100 percent pro-American. For many decades our leaders put global interests and special interests ahead of your interests.

You know that in New Mexico you know exactly what I'm talking about people came in, they took jobs, they had no border, they had no border control. Look look at! What's going on now how we're doing I mean honestly, I mentioned the president of Mexico. We have today twenty seven thousand Mexican soldiers on the border, protecting our country and I'll take the because our laws are so bad they're, so pathetic, and the Democrats could change these laws.

They could change him so quickly. We could change them all in less than an hour. We could do whether it's asylum, whether it's any of the laws we have so many of them that are so bad -- how they got that it took years and years to end, but we have the Mexican soldiers out there. You see him and they're stopping people.

The numbers are plummeting down, so I just want to thank all of the representatives of Mexico, but we've got to get rid of the loopholes. You know the word is loopholes and the Democrats could do it fast, but in the meantime we're doing really well and as the wall goes up, it becomes less and less of a problem because, as the wall gets up, people aren't getting through.

I mean you got to be a a world class pole, vaulter or a world class mt everest type climber, there's one not too many around like that. It's really doing the trick. The failed liberal establishment in Washington squandered your tax dollars shipped away. Your jobs sacrifice your sovereignty and bogged us down in one foreign war debacle, call it whatever you want after another and that's changing.

Also, you see what's happening and when these rich countries think we're going to pay for their military every year, billions and billions and billions and they're rich, and they take our business and we're supposed to on top of everything else, I could tell you stories, but I'm Going to save them for the campaign, you know because to be honest, this is a little earlier than the campaign later this campaign starts, you know like I was telling Brad and I was telling a few of the folks one thing I don't want to do. Michael back to him, Michael hello, my what a job he's done, but I'm telling them.

I don't want to do this too early. I don't want to do it. You know the Pocahontas thing I did that it was before his time was before it's too early.. 1020. For that means, I have more Indian blood than she does and I have none. Unfortunately, I'd like to say I have a lot harder get me another four percent, maybe another 10 percent, but I was early with her and frankly, Oh, it's coming back, don't worry about, but those days are over.

Under this administration we are finally putting America first, putting a we're, reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that ravished our industries and devastated communities all across our land. You see the factories empty buildings empty hulks, some have been demolished, some have been reek, inverted into senior, citizen, housing and housing, but all those jobs are gone and we're bringing them back they're coming back like almost never before, probably I can say they're coming back, like Never before people are coming back down because they want to be where the action is, and this is the country where they have the security and where they do have the action.

In my first week in office I proudly withdrew. From the last administration's job destroying cap, and this was a catastrophe. You know the Trans-Pacific Partnership TPP. This would have destroyed the automobile business in our country. Now, New Mexico, you know that you were totally devastated by another disaster, known as NAFTA.

Your state lost 33 percent of its manufacturing jobs after NAFTA was signed. This was one of the great catastrophes and now we're replacing NAFTA with the brand new U.S-Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA, I think of the song YMCA, YMCA, think of the song USMCA, a U.S-Mexico-Canada aAreement and it's drawing strong bipartisan support from all across your State and all across the country, it's amazing.

I want to just that dawn Anna county Board of Commissioners. All Democrats just unanimously endorsed the USMCA and urged Congress to pass it immediately. Thank you very much, commissioners. Well Democrats, hopefully they'll put it up for a vote. Nancy Pelosi: they put it up for a vote, it's gon na be very popular, but Republicans love it and the Democrats love it and frankly, Labor loves, it. Unions, love it. Farmers, love, love, love it and everybody wants it. You farmers, your ranchers, everybody wants it. It's an incredible agreement and Mexico's already passed it and Canada is ready to pass it soon.

As we do see, they don't. Maybe trust us, that's why I say why aren't you passing it now, they say: oh we'll, pass it they're going to pass it as soon as we do pass. Leaders invited China to freely loot and pillage the United States economy. China has been taking out. From 300 billion to $500 billion a year -- billion, not million, billion.

Think of what $500 billion dollars is. We've rebuilt China, but now it's a different ballgame somebody had to do something with China. President Obama should have done it. Presidents, Bush should have done it. President Clinton should have done it. They all should have done it frankly. They all should have done a lot of things that we're doing right now, job you look at it, nobody did it. So I'm doing it and that's what's going to happen so now we're taking in billions and billions of dollars.

From China when in the past we never got 10 cents, we never got money, we never got anything. You know we got unemployment and losses and some ] more than we needed. You could do with one less pencil following decades of outsourcing and offshoring. Our jobs and factories are coming back home where they belong.

If foreign companies do not want to pay our tariffs, there is one very simple solution come and make your product in America come and make your product in New Mexico and by the way, I'm just seeing this great group of people. The spirit is there any place in the world, that's more fun or more exciting than a Trump rally.

Really, when you think about it, it's not about fun. It's about achievement, because what we've achieved in the last almost three years is unparalleled. There's never been an administration that in the first two and a half years has done what we've been able to do or to in a few short weeks, we'll be up to 180 sounds impossible.

Federal judges, including court of appeals, judges, because President Obama did us a great favor when I came in, I said I assume I have no judges to appoint. No sir, you have 138 judges, 138 didn't put them up, couldn't get them approved. I don't know what happened, but we started off with 138t. Now we're up to 180. I just signed my 150, a federal judge and court of appeals judge, and we already have two great Supreme Court justices, lawsuits and cabinet great great men.

So think of that you know you come in, and I've always heard the most important thing. A president does I disagree with this by the way, but that's OK. I disagree with a lot of things because I think the most important thing is our military and protecting our country right. But if you listen to the so-called Washington elite, the White elite, we do better than they do we're smarter than them.

We make more money, we have better houses, we have better everything and then they say the elite. That means you're. The super elite have always taken offense when somebody said president Trump is tired of listening to the elite. I said no, no, I'm more elite than them. I mean. If we go by the old Sanders, are better houses, better schools made much more money lived better.

Had everything going and then I decide to run for president and I'll be I'll, be honest. Well, we have to put up with these people, and others are that's incredible, but it's the greatest single decision I've ever made because our country is turning around so rapidly. I could not be happier despite what they put us all through after years of building up other countries we're finally building up our country.

Isn't that nice it's time to finally take care of our own and we're also aggressively combating the opioid epidemic, which is horrible and as a result of our nonstop efforts and billions and billions of dollars invested last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose. Deaths and it was a very big decline in nearly three decades 30 years and at the center of America's drug crisis.

This is where the Hispanics know it better than anybody. People said: oh, the Hispanics won't like a world. I said I think they're going to love. It they won't like border security. I think they're going to love it. You know why, because you understand it better than other people, but at the whole center of this crisis is the drugs that are pouring in, and you understand that when other people don't understand it, the border crisis every day, dangerous criminal cartels, smuggle vast quantities of lethal Narcotics across your southern border, including heroin, meth, cocaine and fentanyl, and we're stopping them now you see the kind of numbers we're getting millions and millions and millions of dollars worth we've had some shipments.

What could kill half of the country, some of the fentanyl and some of the bad, really bad stuff if it were distributed, could actually has the power to kill half of the country. This is like a war like situation. That's why you're like in Trump, because you're not going to let that happen if you want to stop the drug smugglers and the human traffickers, how about the human traffic and they traffic really for the most part in women, that's what they traffic in its women they're, Not trafficking in men, they capture women and they bring them across the open borders and they don't go through ports of entry where you have guards standing there with guns and rifles and everything else.

They go out into the desert areas and they hang a left or they hang a right and they come in. But now when you have a wall, they can't do that right, and so many of these Democrats are against. What's common sense, look you know when I saw the other day where the Democrats are having their convention their national convention.

They just gave out a tremendous contract. You know what it's for they're, building a big wall around the building, they're building a big wall, a massive wall. We should tell them open borders, let everybody come in and a few years ago, almost every one of these they're on tape. That's the problem with politics.

Three years they could say, look I saw Senator Schumer, I saw Nancy Pelosi, I saw all of them, they said no, we need a wall, we must have a wall, we must have President Obama, we must have a wall, we must stop people from coming into our Country illegally, we have to stop it. We need a wall now, a few leaders later they don't want a war.

You know why, because anything I want, they want to do the opposite and that's okay, that's the only reason, but if you want to stop the drug smugglers, human traffickers and vicious M.A three gang members which we're taking out every year by the thousands and getting them The hell out of our country, because of ice, and if you want to stop all these people.

From threatening our communities and poisoning our youth, you know it's poisoning. Are you that's what it is? It's nothing other than that. It's very simple, they're poisoning our youth. You have only one choice: you must elect republicans and, to be honest with you, you've got to elect President Trump. We need four more years president, how about these phony Democrats.

They started with Russia, Russia, Russia, that turned out to be a fraud that turned out to be a fraud. Then they went to race. They believe that one race, some the least racist person in the room -- then they went to recession -- is going to be a recession. Oh, please let there be a recession, because we have a better chance of defeating him if there's a recession and unfortunately, the stock market's. Only a few points from its all time high, which we've broken on, I think it's well.

Over a hundred times, we broke the all time record, and now they have a new one that I'm enriching my sublimity. By doing this, and taking this particular job, which I love, it will cost me billions and billions of dollars. But if somebody from the Middle East that I never saw before comes in and stays in one of my hotels for an evening and pays $439 emoluments, nobody ever heard the word of my job before Emanuel monument.

Nobody ever heard that word, emoluments he's enriching himself. If somebody buys a tank of gas in Scotland from an airport that I don't run and they happen to go to a hotel, he's enriching himself like 20 people and they lose billions of dollars and that's OK. I expected to do that when I did it, I didn't know what would happen if I lost, can you imagine supposing I lost and we would have had the same basic rhetoric I mean winning was great.

Supposing you know I'm doing all the things I'm telling you all the same sort of thing: supposing I did make it I'd have to go around. I would have lost and lost billions. Then I would have been really unhappy, but I'll tell you what I expected that when I did this in terms of opportunity in terms of certain places, they can never do as well.

When you have this kind of rhetoric, they can never do so I'll lose billions of dollars always expected. They say I enrich myself because somebody is going to stay at my hotel. It doesn't work that way. Folks -- and these are very, very dishonest people and they know it so they've, given up what every other you know it to you, get it. The Democrat agenda of open borders places vast burdens on your communities and your schools and your hospitals and public safety all at the expense of hardworking New Mexico families and throughout our country, sheriffs and commissioners.

From 9 Mexico counties recently sent a letter to your state's congressional delegation, begging them to vote for strong border security. They want in New Mexico. They don't want open borders, they don't want criminals pouring into your communities and doing what they do and we won't even talk about that.

They want strong. These are people that are with you. In many cases, Democrats they write letters. We need strong border security. You know in San Diego, california is very difficult, always complaining not doing great, but they wanted a wall in San Diego good mayor in San Diego, by the way they wanted a wall, and I said you know what let's build it someplace else, because California, you know Once we build it, they'll complain, but then I said you know the people are pouring in. They needed it. They're pouring into San Diego, like going all over the place and people that had houses.

They didn't like people running over their gardens all day. Long coming in from the other side, so we put up a wall and I thought everybody would be happy as soon as it was finished today it was finished. I was notified, we didn't want the war, why did you do the war? And I will tell you, in other words: it's all a game: I'd love to take the sucker down and move it right down to New Mexico, and if I did that they'd go crazy and they'd say Please, sir: don't do that.

Please please the same people that are saying we don't want a wall. Why did you put up a wall and I knew that was going to happen? I told my people that was gonna happen, but they're very happy with their wall. Most of them won't say it, they love it, it stopped, it only stopped. 99.9 percent of the people coming in and the only reason I'm not moving into New Mexico is that it would cost more money to move it than to build you a brand new beautiful wall.

So I'll give you a break if true actually priced it out. It's true. His contract is all my life. I've been there. They can find a way to make money. Sir it'll cost more money to move the wall than to build a new one. They have. They have it, but the commission, your commissioners, wrote, I quote: our communities do not have the resources nor the budgets to handle the massive influx of immigrants we are experiencing.

This is your commissioners writing to us in Washington. Our scarce resources are in danger of being rapidly depleted to the point that we will be unable to effectively care for our own citizens, you and our existing homeless populations, many of whom are American veterans right, so Democrats put illegal aliens before American citizens.

Republicans believe that we must take care of our own citizens. First, I'm sorry that includes millions of hardworking, lawful immigrants who waited in line, follow the rules and came into our country legally and among those hardest hit by illegal immigration. Are Hispanic Americans who obey our laws? Pay their taxes contribute to our communities and play by the rules and they're the ones that want to see something done, and we are doing it at a level that nobody else would be capable of doing whether you're a first generation or a tenth generation.

Every American citizen deserves a government that defends your jobs, your safety, your family and is always loyal to you. Your politicians have not been loyal to you. They've been loyal to themselves. The Democrats are also trying to turn every city in America into a sanctuary for criminal and that's one of the very good reasons we won on Tuesday night North Carolina because they let people out of their sanctuary city and what those people did.

I will not tell you tonight, but it wasn't good it's one of the reasons we had big victories, two of them in North Carolina, sanctuary cities and plenty of people, even in California, where they have sanctuary cities. They don't want sanctuary cities, the politicians do, but they don't want them right here in New Mexico democrats are trying to turn you into a total sanctuary state, creating a safe harbor for dangerous criminal aliens and gang members that sanctuary policies released from jail now think of It they want to make your whole state a sanctuary state.

So when Amnesty 13 comes in -- and I told you before -- we take them out by the thousands and they're tough and tough, but our ice folks are even tougher. There's nobody to but you're. I would say naive, but maybe it's much worse than the naive, these politicians, the naive politicians. They don't want ice to come in. They don't want to take these criminals out and if you don't take them out and they're in New Mexico, I got to tell you something folks: You got problems.

You've got problems. You've got big problems, republicans believe our cities should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans not for criminal aliens and Republicans will always support the heroes of ICE Border Patrol and our great law enforcement. The Democrat Party, you notice, I always say the Democrat Party you know before I came.

They were all going democratic because it sounds better right. It does it's much nicer. The Democratic Party is much nicer than the Democrat Party, but their name is the Democrat Party and I'm not looking for them to sound nice. I want to give their name so I always say the Democrat Party, but that's their name, the Democrat Party.

Frankly, they should probably change it because it does and then I call the Democratic Party, but the Democrat Party has never been farther outside the mainstream. Every major, it's a nasty fly. I don't like those suckers, I don't know about you in New Mexico, but I'm not into flies or mosquitoes. I don't like steaks too much.

We have plenty of them in New York and Washington a different variety. I don't like snakes. We've got a lot of snakes in Washington. D.C. we've got a lot of steaks in New York. I don't like either kind of snake. I think I like the kind and the ground better than the ones we have in every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of health care that would destroy Medicare.

As we know it today, my administration will protect Medicare and defend your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. The Republicans will always do our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription. Drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 50 years.

You don't hear this because the fake news doesn't want to read about it. You know. Sometimes I have a news conference about something good, so good and I'll say you know, I call my wife first lady. First lady people love our First Lady I'll, say you see television tonight and we did something that was so great whatever it may be. We did a lot of things.

We did something so great and it won't be on. But if there's something that's just slightly negative or even if it's good that they could turn negative, that's what they like best take something good and turn it negative. It's breaking. We have breaking news, we are breaking news, these are phony people, but that's OK. You know when you think of it, I'm president and they're, not you know sometimes I'll be in the Oval Office and I'll be with my people.

We have great people, and I say you know it's great calm in the Oval Office. You don't like to hear about it because you don't hear about it too much, that's not worth it, but we have great calm, considering it's pretty wild stuff going on in the world right but I'll be saying you know they don't treat us right.

They don't treat us right, it's not fair, it's not this and then I'll just sit back and say, look we're in the Oval Office and they're, not it's pretty amazing, and when you have the Democrat Party and the press, the media, the lame stream media, the fake News and their partners, they are partners. Ok, remember the word manufactured, they used the word manufacturer or something never been used for that thing, and every news gets.

The manufactured crisis started the next one. This crisis was manufactured every one of them use the word manufacture. They know what I'm talking about now. That's called collusion. Folks, that's real collusion. No, you have that, and so you have the Democrats. You have the media, they're partners. Then you have the deep state we're getting rid of a lot of them.

I'll tell you we're finding them left and right. Well, you take a look at I'll. Tell you what I'll tell you what you take a look at what we're doing with all of the things I'm not going to get into detail. But you know what I'm talking about clean the swamp, that's the ultimate cleaning of the swamp, and then I hate to say this.

But we have some Republicans they're, not good. You call them a rhino, they're rhinos, the rhinos are worse and some of them are worse than the Obama people right. The worst of the Obama people they're worse than the Clinton people, but there aren't too many of them left they're pretty much on respirators gASPING, they're gasping for air, but we do have some bad people that you wouldn't believe.

I didn't hear you. Why did you say? I didn't hear that virtually every top Democrat also now supports late term. Abortion ripping babies straight from the mothers right up until the moment of birth, and that's why I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift.

From God right I see it just like Mom, I see it. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion and socialism. The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and it is the party of the American dream. We've achieved record funding for the US military.

All of that money, trillions and trillions of dollars spent all produced right here in the good old USA, and I have to tell you New Mexico. I know you're going to like this a lot of those trillions because you know when you do the 7 16 and the 7 30 and the 700 billion all of a sudden you're in trillions, and I can save a lot of lines when I just say trillions.

A lot of that money is going to be spent in the state of the art military equipment, that's being used at Holloman Air Force base, white Sands Missile Range, Kirtland Air Force Base and many other vital New Mexico military installations that are going up as we speak. That's also jobs but, more importantly, that even jobs credible.

What you've done for the military in New Mexico is incredible and we've remembered, but we're pouring a lot of money into New Mexico. And that means a lot of good and we're investing in our nation's nuclear security, including right here in New Mexico and Sandia National Laboratories and Los Alamos National Laboratory to protect America's security.

I withdrew the United States from the horrible one sided iran nuclear deal. It was no good and we impose the toughest ever sanctions on the Iranian regime watch how that works out folks going to be very good. I recognized Israel's true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem and don't forget what I did for Israel with respect to Golan Heights.

Don't forget! Right! For years you watched as your politicians apologize for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for New Mexico and you must never forget, get out there and vote and get ready and get everybody. We need it because we're fighting a lot of forces, including Facebook.

I saw and Google I saw, did you see Google? He said I may have lost 2 million to 10 million votes according to this character that worked at Google right and we still won how the hell did we win. Everybody was against us. How did we win? How did we win? This? Is a Google executive. > From two million to ten point, five million votes and we won?

I don't know we must be doing. I will say this that happened and people came from the valleys. They came from everywhere. They came from places that nobody's ever talked about before, and it was the forgotten men and women, but the truth is, I know these men and women and they're the most incredible men and women in this country.

They really are. They just never had anybody, they really wanted to vote for, or at least for a long time they didn't want to get out there. They said Boy, oh boy, is this the best they can do I mean in all fairness. I don't want to go too early here. Look at the field. Did you watch the debate the other day we've got almost three hundred and fifty million people I'll take it that's the best they can do we'll see we'll see you never want to get too cocky.

Somebody said in the great state of Texas, Donald Trump is down two points to boot edge but put edge good judge, they're phony polls. You know they have phony polls. I told the story the other night. For six months. I was hearing that I'm going to lose the state of Texas and friends of mine from Texas that look just like these guys win two guys with a hat.

They might even be better if they look just like their own just say I don't know about you, but I know a lot about Texas and Donald Trump he's not going to be losing the state of Texas. They don't say it's in play, they're too smart. They say Texas is in play and Utah they said was in play. All these are in play in play means we could lose them right.

It's a better term, though, because this way they can't get skunked, but they can get skunked. So what happens is on that? Beautiful election, that was not one of the greatest coolest nights ever well. You know they can never call a victory unless you absolutely have it and unless you're winning by a lot.

This is six months texas is in play, you know he could lose Texas. I keep saying I go to a stadium. We sell out thousands of people lines that are miles long. I mean in every friend of mine, says you're going to win by a lot, so they announce 8:00 o'clock whatever time the polls in Texas are close. Donald Trump has won the state of Texas.

The polls in Utah are close. Donald Trump has won the state of Utah; they don't even take a breath. Now, if it's close like it's in play, you know you wait two three four or five hours to see what it is, but they don't even take a breath because they're called suppression polls and they're no different than all of the dishonest reporting that you people say.

They're, no different they're suppression polls and I'll tell you what we're going to win the state of New Mexico and I'll be so you know we're going to win New Mexico. You know when I came here during the last election came here a little because I was told very hard to win and I came here a little bit. I saw great spirit, but I didn't really have a track record because you know I never did this stuff before so I said I was going to cut your taxes.

I did. I said I was going to cut you regulations. I did more than any president in history and they've been there for many years. I did everything and I think the regulation cutting like the waters of the U.S. That was another beauty where you couldn't build a house. You couldn't farm your land now. What we've done on regulations is incredible.

I've done I've rebuilt our military. I've taken care of our vets. Look how happy our vets are with choice. Instead of waiting for two months to see a doctor or two weeks or three days, they now go out. If there's a wait, they go out, they get a private doctor, they get taken care of, we pay the bill and for the first time they've tried to get that for 45 years they haven't been able to get it, but I'm good at getting things.

You must never forget the 2020 election is about one thing: what's it about it's about you, it is it's about you, it's about you. You know I'm doing a good job as your messenger, but basically I'm a messenger. I know what you want. I understand that it's about your family, it's about your future and it's about the fate of your country, for your children, for everybody, it's about the fate of your country, it's about the future of our great country, no matter what label they use a vote.

For any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of the American dream. That's what it's about! Look at Venezuela, venezuela, 15 years ago, was one of the wealthiest countries in the world and today very sad, no food, no water! No, nothing, socialism. We begin this campaign with the best record.

The best results, the best agenda and the only positive vision for America, and it's not just a little bit positive. Our country is going to be greater than it ever was. That's where we're headed together. We will help millions more citizens, know the dignity of work, the pride of a paycheck and the satisfaction of a job really well done.

With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and very lawful system of immigration, and we're going to have a lot done anyway. We already do have a lot. Then you saw the figures last week, but we're doing it the hard way would be so much easier. With a little stroke of the pen, we will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with those beautiful beautiful words that incredible phrase Made in the USA.

We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within ten years that we've already started that program. It will happen. We have the medicine. Nobody even knew that the AIDS epidemic in this country will be gone within ten years.

We've already started the process. It's been funded, it's been funded. Who would have thought that, honestly, when I ran, I didn't know that we have now the technology and what they've done with respect to AIDS is incredible. What a terrible terrible period of time the world went through, but we will have it ended within 10 years.

We will defeat the effort to drive up the cost of houses, cars, healthcare, light bulbs right. They took away our light bulb. I want an incandescent light. I want to look better. Ok, I want to pay less money to look better. Does that make sense, you pay much less money and you look much better and on top of that, with the new bulbs, if they break it's considered a hazardous waste site, it's all gases inside and you're supposed to bring it back to where you bought it. It is sealed container, give me a break.

I ask the people, the professionals. Well, what do people do when it breaks because they break all the time? What do they do? Nothing they throw it away. So I owe a lot of people didn't know. They didn't understand. You're a much better light at a much reduced cost and it's much safer because when those other bulbs break they really are dangerous.

The gases come out they're dangerous. These are little things that I have to explain. Otherwise people would say What the hell are you doing with light bulbs and we're trying to do the same thing with cars. Cars have so much junk on them now to save a tiny little fraction of gasoline, they have so much junk that they're less safe.

So what I want to do is the following: under our rules and regulations that cars are environmentally terrific, but they're, safer and they're $3,500 less to buy and the reason they're safer is because they can be a little bit. Heavier makes sense right. They could be a little bit heavier, I mean they make them now, like papier mch. Somebody touches them in the entire car collapses.

When somebody hits me, I want to be in as close to an army tank as possible. Now they're made out of paper mch. They weigh about three pounds and if you get hit by a bus, it's over, they say what happened to that car. No, I think of it. It's safer, it's less expensive by $3,500 on average and California wants you to do the other cars and we don't we're going to end up in a big litigation and I'm fighting for you look look it's it's not the kind of thing most.

Presidents would be fighting for because they say I pay more, let it be unsafe, listen to the environmentalists and I'm an environmentalist, I believe in the environment. I want the cleanest water on the planet. I want the cleanest air. I want a lot of things. You know right now: we have the cleanest air that we've ever had in this country, but what are they going to do about China and India and Russia and other countries that are spewing stuff?

What do we do about them? We're going to keep our nation clean, but you know the universe is so big that when you talk about China, the USA, India, you talk about these different places where a lot of bad stuff comes out right, it's so big that it's right next to each other. It's right next to each other.

Does that make sense right, it's right next to each other. So what are they going to do? We want to have the cleanest water and the cleanest air. We will defend privacy, we will defend free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and we will always proudly defend your second amendment we're doing a and, above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one American.

We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with our incredible heroes of law enforcement, we believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life. We believe that mothers and fathers, not Washington bureaucrats, know best how to raise their strong, beautiful families in their loving and wonderful communities.

We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag, and we will always live by the words of our national motto. Nobody will ever take it down. Nobody will ever take it down. We will never allow them to take it down in God. We Trust we stand on the shoulders of American patriots who built this country into the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth, and we are going to be better than ever before, and it won't even be close and we're right there.

Our ancestors crossed the oceans settled the continent tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered sciences, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism, put a man on the moon and build the most exceptional country in the history of the world, and every day of my presidency we will Never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to each and every one of you with your help, your devotion and your drive hey.

That's too bad. He did it right in the crescendo. How do you top that? I'm just ready? The big beautiful crescendo in his character is going back home all right. It's two people tonight remember when they say massive protests at the Trump rally to pay. With your help, your devotion and you drive, we are going to keep on working.

We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning winning winning a win like never before we are one move, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God, America is thriving like never before, and, ladies and gentlemen of the great State of New Mexico, we love you, the best is yet to come best.
