Donald Trump|Interview: Donald Trump with The New York Times|July 19, 2017
Hi fellas, how you doing?
It was good. We are very close. Its a tough -- you know, health care. Look, Hillary Clinton worked eight years in the White House with her husband as president and having majorities and couldnt get it done. Smart people, tough people -- couldnt get it done. Obama worked so hard.
They had 60 in the Senate. They had big majorities and had the White House. I mean, ended up giving away the state of Nebraska. They owned the state of Nebraska. Right. Gave it away. Their best senator did one of the greatest deals in the history of politics. What happened to him?
But I think we are going to do OK I think we are going to see. I mean, one of my ideas was repeal. But I certainly rather would get repeal and replace, because the next last thing I want to do is start working tomorrow morning on replace. And it is time. It is tough. Its a very narrow path, winding this way. You think you have it, and then you lose four on the other side because you gave. It is a brutal process. And it was for Democrats, in all fairness.
I mean, you think of Hillary Clinton, and you look, she went eight years -- very capable -- went eight years as the first lady, and could not get health care. So this is not an easy crack. The one thing Ill say about myself, so, Obama was in there for eight years and got Obamacare. Hillary Clinton was in there eight years and they never got Hillarycare, whatever they called it at the time.
I am not in here six months, and theyll say, "Trump hasnt fulfilled his agenda." I say to myself, wait a minute, Im only here a very short period of time compared to Obama. How long did it take to get Obamacare?
So he was there for more than a year.
And Im here less than six months, so, ah, you know. Something to think about.
Well, it was a tough one. That was a very tough one.
Nothing changes. Nothing changes. Once you get something for pre-existing conditions, etc., etc. Once you get something, its awfully tough to take it away.
But what it does, Maggie, it means it gets tougher and tougher. As they get something, it gets tougher. Because politically, you cant give it away. So pre-existing conditions are a tough deal. Because you are basically saying from the moment the insurance, youre 21 years old, you start working and youre paying $12 a year for insurance, and by the time youre 70, you get a nice plan. Heres something where you walk up and say, "I want my insurance." Its a very tough deal, but it is something that were doing a good job of.
Yes, yes.
So I told them today, I dont want to do that. I want to either get it done or not get it done. If we dont get it done, we are going to watch Obamacare go down the tubes, and well blame the Democrats. And at some point, they are going to come and say, "Youve got to help us."
I think so. We had a great meeting. Was I late?
It was a great meeting. We had 51 show up, other than John.
Thats a lot. Normally when they call for a meeting, you have like 20.
Ah, 49. It was actually 48, but John McCain was there. But I guess we had 51 today, so that counts. That shows the spirit.
Well, they are all key. The problem is we have 52 votes. Dont forget, you look at Obama, he had 60. Thats a big difference. So, we have 52 votes. Now, I guess we lose Susan Collins. I guess we lose Rand Paul. Then we cant lose any votes. That is a very tough standard. Statistically, you want to bet on that all day long. With that being said, I think we had a great meeting. I think we had a great meeting.
Well, I say, lets not vote on repeal. Lets just vote on this. So first, they vote on the vote. And that happens sometime Friday?
Or Monday? Monday. And then theyll vote on this, and well see. We have some meetings scheduled today. I think we have six people who are really sort of OK They are all good people. We dont have bad people. I know the bad people. Believe me, do I know bad people. And we have a very good group of people, and I think they want to get there. So well see what happens. But its tough.
I like him. I mean, hes good. Hes good. Its been a tough process for him.
Yeah. Its been a tough process for him. This health care is a tough deal. I said it from the beginning. No. 1, you know, a lot of the papers were saying -- actually, these guys couldnt believe it, how much I know about it. I know a lot about health care.  This is a very tough time for him, in a sense, because of the importance. And I believe we get there.
This is a very tough time for them, in a sense, because of the importance. And I believe that its , that makes it a lot easier. Its a mess. One of the things you get out of this, you get major tax cuts, and reform. And if you add what the people are going to save in the middle income brackets, if you add that to what theyre saving with health care, this is like a windfall for the country, for the people.
So, I dont know, I thought it was a great meeting. I bet the numbers -- I bet the real numbers four. But lets say six or eight. And everyones , so statistically, thats a little dangerous, right?
I hope we dont have any grandstanders. I dont think we do.
I think it will be pretty bad for them if they did. I dont think we have any -- I think it would be very bad for -- I think this is something the people want. Theyve been promised it.
I have had the best reviews on foreign land. So I go to Poland and make a speech. Enemies of mine in the media, enemies of mine are saying it was the greatest speech ever made on foreign soil by a president. Im saying, man, they cover . You saw the reviews I got on that speech. Poland was beautiful and wonderful, and the reception was incredible.
And then, went to France the following week, because it was the 100th year.  The Paris Accord -- I wasnt going to get along with France for a little while, because people forget, because it is a very unfair agreement to us. China doesnt get  until 2030. Russia goes back to 1994 as a standard -- a much, much lower standard.
India has things that are . I want to do the same thing as everyone else. We cant do that? We cant do that? Thats OK Let me get out. Frankly, the people that like me, love that I got out.
After that, it was fairly surprising. He called me and said, "Id love to have you there and honor you in France," having to do with Bastille Day. Plus, its the 100th year of the First World War. Thats big. And I said yes. I mean, I have a great relationship with him. Hes a great guy.
Hes a great guy. Smart. Strong. Loves holding my hand.
People dont realize he loves holding my hand. And thats good, as far as that goes.
I mean, really. Hes a very good person. And a tough guy, but look, he has to be. I think he is going to be a terrific president of France. But he does love holding my hand.
At that note, the cameras are gone. I was standing there with him, with probably hundreds of thousands of people.
And it was one of the most beautiful parades I have ever seen. And in fact, we should do one one day down Pennsylvania Ave.
Ive always thought of that.
Ive always thought of that. Ive thought of it long before.
But the Bastille Day parade was -- now that was a super-duper -- OK I mean, that was very much more than normal. They must have had 200 planes over our heads. Normally you have the planes and thats it, like the Super Bowl parade.
And everyone goes crazy, and thats it. That happened for -- and you know what else that was nice? It was limited. You know, it was two hours, and the parade ended. It didnt go a whole day. They didnt go crazy. You dont want to leave, but you have to. Or you want to leave, really.
These things are going on all day. It was a two-hour parade. They had so many different zones. Maybe 100,000 different uniforms, different divisions, different bands. Then we had the retired, the older, the ones who were badly injured. The whole thing, it was an incredible thing.
And you are looking at the Arc . So we are standing in the most beautiful buildings, and we are looking down the road, and like three miles in, and then you had the Arc. And then you have these soldiers. Everyone was so proud. Honestly, it was a beautiful thing. I was glad I did it.
People were surprised because Id just come back from Hamburg. So I was back for three days, and then I had to go out again. But when he  invited me, he and I have a very good relationship. I have a very good relationship with Merkel.
Do you know what happened with Merkel? So I am sitting in the chair. Wed been sitting there for two hours. So its not like, "Nice to see ya." So the press comes in. So I guess someone screamed out, "Shake her hand, shake her hand!" I didnt even hear. So I didnt shake her hand, because Id been with her for so long. Id been with her for a long period of time. So I didnt shake her -- the next day, "Trump refused to shakeÉ"
She actually called me, and she said, um, "You know, I think we get along very well." I said we do, we really do. I said, "You gotta put more money into NATO," No. 1. And No. 2 is like, our trade imbalance is ridiculous. You know, its a money machine.
Its been a long time. Nothing changes. Wait till you see what were going to do on trade.
Much more interesting than anybody would understand.
As to Britain?
Ah, theyve asked me. What was interesting -- so, when Macron asked, I said: "Do you think its a good thing for me to go to Paris? I just ended the Paris Accord last week. Is this a good thing?" He said, "They love you in France." I said, "OK, I just dont want to hurt you."
We had dinner at the Eiffel Tower, and the bottom of the Eiffel Tower looked like they could have never had a bigger celebration ever in the history of the Eiffel Tower. I mean, there were thousands and thousands of people, cause they heard we were having dinner.
Yeah. It was beautiful. We toured the museum, we went to Napoleons tomb É
Well, Napoleon finished a little bit bad. But I asked that. So I asked the president, so what about Napoleon? He said: "No, no, no. What he did was incredible. He designed Paris."  The street grid, the way they work, you know, the spokes. He did so many things even beyond. And his one problem is he didnt go to Russia that night because he had extracurricular activities, and they froze to death. How many times has Russia been saved by the weather?
Same thing happened to Hitler. Not for that reason, though. Hitler wanted to consolidate. He was all set to walk in. But he wanted to consolidate, and it went and dropped to 35 degrees below zero, and that was the end of that army.
But the Russians have great fighters in the cold. They use the cold to their advantage. I mean, theyve won five wars where the armies that went against them froze to death.  Its pretty amazing. So, were having a good time. The economy is doing great.
Theyre going to really go up if we do what were doing. I mean, cut regulations tremendously. Sometimes -- you know, one thing they hadnt thought about at The Times, where they said I didnt really cut regulations as much. I heard that because I said -- it could have been a little slip-up in terms of what I said -- I meant, for the time in office, five months and couple of weeks, I think Ive done more than anyone else. They may have taken it as more than anyone else, period.
But Im talking about for my time. I heard that Harry Truman was first, and then we beat him. These are approved by Congress. These are not just executive orders. On the executive orders, we cut regulations tremendously. By the way, I want regulations, but, you know, some of the -- you have to get nine different regulations, and you could never do anything. Ive given the farmers back their farms. Ive given the builders back their land to build houses and to build other things.
The energy stuff is going really well. Were going to be an exporter -- we already are an exporter of energy. Were doing well. I mean, the banks, you look at rules and regulations, you look at Dodd-Frank, Dodd-Frank is going to be, you know, modified, and again, I want rules and regulations. But you dont want to choke, right?
People cant get loans to buy a pizza parlor, to buy a -- you know, I saw out on the trail -- people say, Mr. Trump, weve dealt with banks, my own bank, and they cant loan me anymore. Ive never had a bad day with a bank. You know? So well put -- yeah, because of statutory , they cant loan to that kind of a business. And theyre good businesses to loan to. So I think weve -- I think were set to really go .
So, that dinner was a very long time planned dinner. And what it was was an evening at the opera. It was a final night goodbye from Germany and from Chancellor Merkel. It was her dinner. It was, you know, everybody knew about it. It was well-known.
So when we got there, it was with spouses, and when we got there, there were a thousand media. You guys know, were you guys there?
So, it was tremendous media. And we took a picture of everybody, the wives and the leaders, and then the leaders, and, you know, numerous pictures outside on the river. Then everybody walked in to see the opera. Then the opera ended. Then we walked into a big room where they had dinner for not only the leaders -- Lagarde was there, who I think is terrific, and various others
You had the E.U. people there, people other than just the leaders, but quite a few people. I would say you have 20 times two, so you had 40, and then you probably had another 10 or 15 people, you had Christine Lagarde, you had some others also.
So, I was seated next to the wife of Prime Minister Abe, who I think is a terrific guy, and shes a terrific woman, but doesnt speak English.
Like, not "hello."
Well, its hard, because you know, youre sitting there for --
So the dinner was probably an hour and 45 minutes.
You had an opera, and then you had a cocktail party for the people at the opera, and then you had the leaders with the spouses, and other leaders in Europe and maybe other places, go in. We sat at this really long table, which held, has to be at least 60, 65 people with room. OK, its a very big table, big room. But there was nothing secretive about it.
It was like, thats where were going. And I think it even said on the list, at the request of the German chancellor and Germany, its going to be the opera, its going to be cocktails, its going to be dinner. I think the crowd thinned out for the dinner -- you know, it was the leaders, primarily. But the leaders and Lagarde. And .
OK, so were sitting at this massive table. And the wives are separated from their husbands, which sometimes they do, sometimes they dont. But they did. Its always easier when they dont do it, because you always have somebody to talk to, right? And I was sitting next to the president of Argentina -- his wife -- Macri -- nice woman, who speaks English.
And the prime minister of Japans wife, Prime Minister Abe. Great relationships. So Im sitting there. There was one interpreter for Japanese, cause otherwise it would have been even tougher. But I enjoyed the evening with her, and shes really a lovely woman, and I enjoyed -- the whole thing was good.
And now Melania was sitting on the other side of the table, way down on the other end, very far away. She was sitting next to Putin and somebody else, I dont know. She was sitting next to Putin.
Yes. She was sitting next to Putin.
No. She speaks other languages.
She was sitting next to Putin and somebody else, and thats the way it is. So the meal was going, and toward dessert I went down just to say hello to Melania, and while I was there I said hello to Putin. Really, pleasantries more than anything else. It was not a long conversation, but it was, you know, could be 15 minutes. Just talked about -- things. Actually, it was very interesting, we talked about adoption.
We talked about Russian adoption. Yeah. I always found that interesting. Because, you know, he ended that years ago. And I actually talked about Russian adoption with him, which is interesting because it was a part of the conversation that Don had in that meeting. As Ive said -- most other people, you know, when they call up and say, "By the way, we have information on your opponent," I think most politicians -- I was just with a lot of people, they said , "Who wouldnt have taken a meeting like that?" They just said --
A lot of them. They said, "Who wouldnt have taken a meeting like that?"
Nah, a couple of them. They -- now, that was before Russia was hot, dont forget. You know, Russia wasnt hot then. That was almost a year and a half ago. It wasnt like it is, like it is radioactive, then. Russia was Russia.
Well, I never saw the email. I never saw the email until, you know --
Well, Hillary did the reset. Somebody was saying today, and then I read, where Hillary Clinton was dying to get back with Russia. Her husband made a speech, got half a million bucks while she was secretary of state. She did the uranium deal, which is a horrible thing, while she was secretary of state, and got a lot of money.
She was opposing sanctions. She was totally opposed to any sanctions for Russia.
I just saw it. I just saw it. She was opposed to sanctions, strongly opposed to sanctions on Russia.
I dont really know. É But in that time. And dont forget, Crimea was given away during Obama. Not during Trump. In fact, I was on one of the shows, I said theyre exactly right, they didnt have it as it exactly. But he was -- this -- Crimea was gone during the Obama administration, and he gave, he allowed it to get away. You know, he can talk tough all he wants, in the meantime he talked tough to North Korea.
And he didnt actually. He didnt talk tough to North Korea. You know, we have a big problem with North Korea. Big. Big, big. You look at all of the things, you look at the line in the sand. The red line in the sand in Syria.
He didnt do the shot. I did the shot. Had he done that shot, he wouldnt have had -- had he done something dramatic, because if you remember, they had a tremendous gas attack after he made that statement. Much bigger than the one they had with me.
Sarin. And, and tremendous numbers of people were killed, young people, children. And he didnt do anything. That was a famous weekend where they were all asking him to do it, do it, do it. They thought they had it, and then he -- not easy to do, I will say this, cause when I had to make that decision, I was with the president of China, and General Mattis said, "Were locked and loaded, sir," and Im saying , you know.  Look, youre killing people.
You hate it, its tough. Obama -- you know, I can understand it in a way, but some things you have to do. But its, its a tough, its a tough decision to make.
Well, I thought originally it might have had to do something with the payment by Russia of the D.N.C. Somewhere I heard that. Like, it was an illegal act done by the D.N.C., or the Democrats. Thats what I had heard. Now, I dont know where I heard it, but I had heard that it had to do something with illegal acts with respect to the D.N.C.
Now, you know, when you look at the kind of stuff that came out, that was, that was some pretty horrific things came out of that. But thats what I had heard. But I dont know what it means. All I know is this: When somebody calls up and they say, "We have infor -- " Look what they did to me with Russia, and it was totally phony stuff.
The dossier.
Now, that was totally made-up stuff, and in fact, that guys being sued by somebody. É And hes dying with the lawsuit. I know a lot about those guys, theyre phony guys. They make up whatever they want. Just not my thing -- plus, I have witnesses, because I went there with a group of people. You know, I went there with Phil Ruffin --
I had a group of bodyguards, including Keith --
Keith was there. He said, "What kind of crap is this?" I went there for one day for the Miss Universe contest, I turned around, I went back. It was so disgraceful. It was so disgraceful.
When he brought it to me, I said this is really made-up junk. I didnt think about anything. I just thought about, man, this is such a phony deal.
Yeah, dont forget --
I said, this is -- honestly, it was so wrong, and they didnt know I was just there for a very short period of time. It was so wrong, and I was with groups of people. It was so wrong that I really didnt, I didnt think about motive. I didnt know what to think other than, this is really phony stuff.
I think he shared it so that I would -- because the other three people left, and he showed it to me.
So anyway, in my opinion, he shared it so that I would think he had it out there.
Yeah, I think so. In retrospect. In retrospect. You know, when he wrote me the letter, he said, "You have every right to fire me," blah blah blah. Right? He said, "You have every right to fire me." I said, thats a very strange -- you know, over the years, Ive hired a lot of people, Ive fired a lot of people. Nobody has ever written me a letter back that you have every right to fire me.
Comey wrote a letter.
I thought it was to me, right?
It might have been --
It might have been. It was just a very strange letter to say that.
What was the purpose in repeating that?
Do you understand what I mean? Why would somebody say, "He has every right to fire me," bah bah bah. Why wouldnt you just say, "Hey, Ive retired É"
It was very -- a lot of people have commented that.
I think I did a great thing for the American people.
Its okay. I have headaches, thats what I have, I have headaches. É But you know what, I think I did a great thing for the American people.
Well, it couldve been. It couldve been. I feel like it was very dishonest when he wouldnt say what he knew he said to the public. I thought that was very honest. And I thought that he did that for the reason I just said.
I dont know. Nobody has contacted me about anything.
Because I have done nothing wrong. A special counsel should never have been appointed in this case.
Because so far, the only -- yeah, you can put it down.
Look, Sessions gets the job. Right after he gets the job, he recuses himself.
Well, Sessions should have never recused himself, and if he was going to recuse himself, he should have told me before he took the job, and I would have picked somebody else.
Zero. So Jeff Sessions takes the job, gets into the job, recuses himself. I then have -- which, frankly, I think is very unfair to the president. How do you take a job and then recuse yourself? If he would have recused himself before the job, I would have said, "Thanks, Jeff, but I cant, you know, Im not going to take you." Its extremely unfair, and thats a mild word, to the president. So he recuses himself. I then end up with a second man, whos a deputy.
Who is he? And Jeff hardly knew. Hes from Baltimore.
Yeah, what Jeff Sessions did was he recused himself right after, right after he became attorney general. And I said, "Why didnt you tell me this before?" I would have -- then I said, "Whos your deputy?" So his deputy he hardly knew, and thats Rosenstein, Rod Rosenstein, who is from Baltimore. There are very few Republicans in Baltimore, if any. So, hes from Baltimore. Now, he, we went through a lot of things. We were interviewing replacements at the FBI Did you know Mueller was one of the people that was being interviewed?
He was sitting in that chair. We had a wonderful meeting.
The day before! Of course, he was up here, and he wanted the job.
So, now what happens is, he leaves the office. Rosenstein leaves the office. The next day, he is appointed special counsel. I said, what the hell is this all about? Talk about conflicts? But he was interviewing for the job. There were many other conflicts that I havent said, but I will at some point. So Jeff Sessions, Jeff Sessions gave some bad answers.
Yeah, he gave some answers that were simple questions and should have been simple answers, but they werent. He then becomes attorney general, and he then announces hes going to recuse himself. Why wouldnt he have told me that before?
I dont know.
Look, there are so many conflicts that everybody has. Then Rosenstein becomes extremely angry because of Comeys Wednesday press conference, where he said that he would do the same thing he did a year ago with Hillary Clinton, and Rosenstein became extremely angry at that because, as a prosecutor, he knows that Comey did the wrong thing. Totally wrong thing. And he gives me a letter, OK, he gives me a letter about Comey. And by the way, that was a tough letter, OK Now, perhaps I would have fired Comey anyway, and it certainly didnt hurt to have the letter, OK But he gives me a very strong letter, and now hes involved in the case. Well, thats a conflict of interest. Do you know how many conflicts of interests there are? But then, then Comey also says that he did something in order to get the special prose -- special counsel. He leaked. The reason he leaked. So, he illegally leaked.
So think of this. Mike. He illegally leaks, and everyone thinks it is illegal, and by the way, it looks like its classified and all that stuff. So he got -- not a smart guy -- he got tricked into that, because they didnt even ask him that question. They asked him another question, OK?
He said I said "hope" -- "I hope you can treat Flynn good" or something like that. I didnt say anything.
But even if he did -- like I said at the news conference on the, you know, Rose Garden -- even if I did, thats not -- other people go a step further. I could have ended that whole thing just by saying -- they say it cant be obstruction because you can say: "Its ended. Its over. Period."
And nothing was changed other than Richard Nixon came along. And when Nixon came along  was pretty brutal, and out of courtesy, the FBI started reporting to the Department of Justice. But there was nothing official, there was nothing from Congress.
There was nothing -- anything. But the FBI person really reports directly to the president of the United States, which is interesting. You know, which is interesting. And I think were going to have a great new FBI director.
Hes highly thought of by everybody. I think I did the country a great service with respect to Comey.
No, no.
No. That was the other thing. I told people to get out of the room. Why would I do that?
Not much. Not even that I remember. He was sitting, and I dont remember even talking to him about any of this stuff. He said I asked people to go. Look, you look at his testimony. His testimony is loaded up with lies, OK? But people didnt -- we had a couple people that said -- Hi baby, how are you?
My granddaughter Arabella, who speaks -- say hello to them in Chinese.
This is Ivanka. You know Ivanka.
Shes great. She speaks fluent Chinese. Shes amazing.
She spoke with President Xi. Honey? Can you say a few words in Chinese? Say, like, "I love you, Grandpa" --
Shes unbelievable, huh?
Good, smart genes.
So the bottom line is this. The countrys doing well. We are, we are moving forward with a lot of great things. The unemployment is the lowest its been in 16 years. The stock market is the highest its ever been. Its up almost 20 percent since I took office. And were working hard on health care. Um, the Russian investigation -- its not an investigation, its not on me -- you know, theyre looking at a lot of things.
Theyre looking at a big picture.
By the way, its everybody.
You know, Peter, I didnt look into it very closely, to be honest with you.
I just heard there was an email requesting a meeting or something -- yeah, requesting a meeting. That they have information on Hillary Clinton, and I said -- I mean, this was standard political stuff.
No, I didnt know anything about the meeting.
It must have been a very important -- must have been a very unimportant meeting, because I never even heard about it.
No, nobody told me. I didnt know noth -- Its a very unimportant -- sounded like a very unimportant meeting.
Number one, remember, I made many of those speeches.
Many of those speeches. Id go after her all the time.
But there was something about the book, "Clinton Cash," came out.
But we were developing a whole thing. There was something about "Clinton Cash."
Peter, thats all I did, was make those speeches about her. É I dont think I added anything much different than I had been doing. É Ive made some very strong speeches about the corrupt emails. The 33,000 emails being deleted and bleached, and all of the things she was doing. I would make those speeches routinely. É There wasnt much I could say about Hillary Clinton that was worse than what I was already saying.
I mean, I was talking about, she deleted and bleached, which nobody does because of the cost. How she got away with that one, I have no idea. 33,000 emails. I talked about the back of the plane, I talked about the uranium deal, I talked about the speech that Russia gave Clinton -- $500,000 while she was secretary of state -- the husband. I talked about the back of the plane -- honestly, Peter, I mean, unless somebody said that she shot somebody in the back, there wasnt much I could add to my repertoire.
I mean, look at what we have now. We have a director of the FBI, acting, who received $700,000, whose wife received $700,000 from, essentially, Hillary Clinton. Cause it was through Terry. Which is Hillary Clinton.
McCabes wife. She got $700,000, and hes at the FBI I mean, how do you think that? But when you say that -- and think about this for a second. I dont think -- you could give me a whole string of new information. I dont think I could really have -- theres only so much.
You know, you can only say many things. After that it gets boring, OK? How can it be better than deleting emails after you get a subpoena from the United States Congress? Guys go to jail for that, when they delete an email from a civil case. Here, she gets an email from the United States Congress --
What?
I dont want to say that. I mean, I dont want to say.
You understand what I mean, Peter.
I mean, supposing they were able to give me additional -- it wouldnt have helped me. I had so much stuff --
And I couldnt have been better than the stuff I had. Obviously, because I won.
I would say yeah. I would say yes. By the way, I would say, I dont -- I dont -- I mean, its possible theres a condo or something, so, you know, I sell a lot of condo units, and somebody from Russia buys a condo, who knows?
I dont make money from Russia. In fact, I put out a letter saying that I dont make -- from one of the most highly respected law firms, accounting firms. I dont have buildings in Russia. They said I own buildings in Russia.
I dont. They said I made money from Russia. I dont. Its not my thing. I dont, I dont do that. Over the years, Ive looked at maybe doing a deal in Russia, but I never did one. Other than I held the Miss Universe pageant there eight, nine years .
No, I think thats a violation. Look, this is about Russia. So I think if he wants to go, my finances are extremely good, my company is an unbelievably successful company. And actually, when I do my filings, peoples say, "Man." People have no idea how successful this is. Its a great company. But I dont even think about the company anymore.
I think about this. Cause one thing, when you do this, companies seem very trivial. OK? I really mean that. They seem very trivial. But I have no income from Russia. I dont do business with Russia. The gentleman that you mentioned, with his son, two nice people. But basically, they brought the Miss Universe pageant to Russia to open up, you know, one of their jobs.
Perhaps the convention center where it was held. It was a nice evening, and I left. I left, you know, I left Moscow. It wasnt Moscow, it was outside of Moscow.
