Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Holds a Bilateral Meeting With Andrzej Duda of Poland|June 12, 2019
Thank you very much. We have the very great privilege of having the President of Poland with us and his very powerful and lovely wife. Thank you very much. Its great to be with you again. And we are celebrating a lot of different things. The purchase of many F-35 aircraft by Poland -- the finest jet in the world, they say.
The finest fighter plane anywhere in the world. And you knew that; you had your choice. Poland has done really well, and they have really eclipsed anything that anybody thought. And their numbers are fantastic. Their economy is good. Weve helped them a lot and theyve helped us a lot. We have a tremendous trading relationship, and were going to be discussing numerous things today.
Were going to have a pretty long meeting, and at the end of which I guarantee a lot of good things are happening. But theyre big buyers of our equipment, of our planes, and our munitions in every form, in every respect. And were going to keep it that way, and we appreciate it. And on behalf of the First Lady and myself, Id like to thank you both for coming to the Oval Office -- a very special place.
And weve been here before together. And I will never forget the speech I made in Poland. We were treated so well. The people are such a great group of people. And we had a tremendous day. I remember it very well. I wont forget it. That was really rolling out the red carpet. We will not forget. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Excuse me. Go ahead, please.
So were looking at doing things with Poland, including working with their military. And, as you know, Poland wants to build a great military facility for the United States. Theyll build it. Theyre going to spend money. I mean, thats up to them if they want to do it, but its something well consider.
But theyll be putting up the money to build a very major military facility in Poland. And we are giving it very serious thought, and well see how that all works out. But they came to us. They liked the idea. And its something that were very interested in.
Youre talking about the census?
Well, I think that -- and Im not overly involved in that. Thats really a legal matter. But I think when you have a census, and youre not allowed to talk about whether or not somebody is a citizen or not, that doesnt sound so good to me. Can you imagine, you send out a census and youre not allowed to say whether or not a person is an American citizen?
In Poland, theyd say theyre either Polish or theyre not. Right? So I dont want to get you into this battle, but its ridiculous. I think its --
I think its totally ridiculous that we would have a census without asking. But the Supreme Court is going to be ruling on it soon. I think when the census goes out, you should find out whether or not -- and you have the right to ask whether or not somebody is a citizen of the United States. Okay. Yes, maam.
Well, were talking about it. Thats one of the reasons that were here. A lot of money is going to be spent on a facility -- a military facility. A great one, in a very good location in Poland. And, actually, it will be spread over a little area. But, basically, one primary facility. Well see how it works out.
Were talking about it right now.
I hope not. Ill tell you what: Were with everybody. And I hope not. I think that Russia will treat Poland with respect, just like the rest of the world is treating. Poland has really built up a great country. You know, they get hurt, unfortunately, too often. Right? Too often. Theyre in the middle of everything.
And when bad things happen, it seems that Poland is always the first one thats in there. And its unfortunate. No, I hope that Russia and Poland and Germany and everybody is going to get along. Thats what I want. I want everybody to get along.
Well, theyre massive demonstrations. I looked today, and that really is a million people. A lot of times, people talk about they had 2,000 people but it was really 1,000 or it was 200. I see it all the time. I see it all the time. But when you look at this demonstration, they said it was a million people, and that was a million people.
That was as big a demonstration as Ive ever seen. So, I hope it all works out for China and for Hong Kong.
I dont know what theyre sending them. I mean, thats a demonstration that theyre having. I understand the reason for the demonstration, but Im sure theyll be able to work it out. I hope theyre going to be able to work it out with China.
Yes. Yes.
Say it?
Well, were going to be discussing a lot of those elements today.
No, because we have great internal polling. They were fake polls that were released by somebody that is -- its ridiculous. No, we are winning in every single state that weve polled. Were winning in Texas very big. Were winning in Ohio very big. Were winning in Florida very big. They were fake polls that were either put out by the corrupt media -- because much of the media in this country unfortunately is corrupt; I have to tell you that, Mr. President.
And some of it is excellent, but some is very bad. Those are fake numbers. But you know when youre going to see that? Youre going to see that on Election Day. On Election Day, youre going to see it. It was the same thing -- I had the same thing for --
I had the same thing for a long period of time in 2016. I was getting these terrible poll numbers, and I didnt see it, because Id have tremendous crowds and my opponent would have almost nobody. And I said, "I think were going to win the state of Michigan" -- and we did. "I think were going to win the state of Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Ohio." And we won them all.
And now I have the same stuff. Theyre giving out phony polls. No, these are polls that we have, that nobody saw. We do very little polling because Im not a huge believer in polling. I think you go out there and you fight and you dont really need polls. You need ideas more than polls. But we have some internal polling -- very little -- and its unbelievably strong.
The strongest Ive ever been is exactly today.
No, theyre not advisors. Its fake news. You dont understand what Im saying. Those advisors dont exist. They dont exist. Its made up by the newspapers. Its fake news.
Well, I think what the Democrats are trying to do -- because they know theyre going to lose the election so theyre going to give this a shot -- theyre going to -- just every day theyre going to be going more and more after, after. I dont know if you have this, Mr. President, but we have people that are totally out of control.
Its the only way they think they can win the election. So well see what happens. But at some point, the Mueller report spoke. They were very disappointed. It said, "No collusion and no obstruction and no nothing." And, in fact, it said we actually rebuffed your friends from Russia; that we actually pushed them back -- we rebuffed them.
So, the Democrats were very unhappy with the Mueller report. So now theyre trying to do a do-over or a redo. And were not doing that. We gave them everything. We were the most transparent presidency in history. We gave them everything. And you and I, weve all had this conversation many times before. Theres never been anybody so transparent.
Gave them 1.5 million documents. We gave them hundreds of people. I gave them lawyers, which I didnt have to give. I didnt have to give anybody. We gave them everybody. And people that didnt like Donald Trump -- 18 Trump haters -- 18 Democrats, and they were Trump haters. And they were supporters, in some cases, of Hillary Clinton.
They made the decision. And Bob Mueller, no fan of Donald Trump; Im no fan of his. And Bob Mueller came out with a report that said "no collusion" and, by the way -- and led to no obstruction. So now the Democrats want to try and win an election, so they just keep it going. And I think the American public is not going to stand for it. Ill tell you what the Democrats should be doing; they should be working on the border, they should be working on drug pricing, and they should be working on infrastructure, where we could get that done very quickly, but they dont have any time to do anything.
And I think its going to be a tremendous day for us. Its a year and half now until the election. I think its going to be a tremendous day for us.
We expect to have a meeting with President Xi. Were doing very well with respect to China. Were taking in billions and billions of dollars, which we never took in before. The tariffs are -- been, you know, very strong. We have 25 percent of $250 billion. And tremendous money is flowing into our Treasury.
China is subsidizing those companies, so our people are not paying for it. If you look, our people are not paying for it. China is subsidizing those companies so that people continue to work. Now, the problem for China is that a lot of companies are leaving China because they dont want to pay the tariffs.
But were doing very well. And I think -- I have a feeling that were going to make a deal with China because I really dont believe that China wants to continue the problem that they really caused themselves. Because we had a deal done. Almost, I would say, all of the tough points were negotiated. They were negotiated and they were agreed to. And everything was finished.
And then China told us they cant agree to things that they already agreed on. All right. And thats okay. So I said, "Thats okay. Were going to put tariffs on -- 25 percent on $250 billion." Now we have another $325 billion left. And if we dont make a deal, were going to put a tariff on that too. And the United States is making more money than theyve ever made ever, ever before from China.
Id like to make a deal, but well see what happens. But I can tell you, as much as Id like to, China wishes they had that deal to do over again, because what they did was wrong. You cant renegotiate a deal. We had a deal that was done and they wanted to renegotiate. You cant do that.
Thats right.
I think I will. We havent picked a date, but we will. I just had an incredible time. That speech was special, from the standpoint of the people of Poland. And I know it was considered a very important speech. You people even gave me very high marks on that speech. I could say it, but I dont want to say it, but some people said it was the best speech ever made by a President in Europe.
But I did not say that. Im just quoting other people.  But it was a great -- it was a great day. The two folks -- you treated us so great. Ill never forget it. We wont forget our trip to Poland. Very, very tremendous, special people.
Quiet. Quiet. Go ahead.
Im not concerned. I know the President very well. I know the people and the leadership of Poland very well. Im not concerned at all. By the way, Poland is doing so well and they know if they do backslide, they wont be doing well like theyre doing right now. Theyve probably never done better economically.
Theyre like us: The U.S. has never done better economically than were doing right now. They dont want to backslide. They wont backslide. And besides that, they owe us a lot of money because theyre buying a lot of things, right? So thats important. So they have to do well. We have to make sure they do well.
Were very, very happy with Poland. You may want to say something about that.
Thats what I hear. Okay?
Yes.
This would be a -- certainly a statement that the U.S. would be making. I dont talk about permanence or non-permanence. But this would be a statement that the U.S. is making. Steve, go ahead. Please.
Well, theyre talking about 2,000 troops, but wed be taking them out of Germany or wed be moving them from another location. It would be no additional troops to Europe. Weve be moving them from another location.
And as you know, we have 52,000 troops in Germany, and Germany is not living up to what theyre supposed to be doing with respect to NATO, and Poland is. I have to congratulate you. Thank you very much. But Poland is paying the max. The max will be raised. I raised over $100 billion last year from countries that were not paying.
And it wasnt fair to the United States. So we put in -- they put up over $100 billion more. But as you know, Germany is at 1 percent. They should be at 2 percent. And theyre not getting there fast. We have 52,000 troops in Germany. Weve had them there for a long, long time. So wed be, probably, moving a certain number of troops to Poland if we agree to do it. Poland is going to build a phenomenal facility in a very good location.
We havent totally made up a decision. No. We havent finalized anything, but the facility itself would be world class.
Well, thats up to them. I have nothing to do with naming it.
Fort Trump. Thats all I need, "Fort Trump," and you people would have a field day with that, right?  No, thats up to them. They can name it whatever they want. Yes, sir.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Did everybody hear that? No.  Thank you.
So, energy is a tremendous asset that we have. Since Im President, we became the largest energy producer in the world. And we now are shipping a lot of energy offshore and to different countries. Vietnam just made a tremendous purchase of coal from West Virginia. Were a tremendous energy producer now in all forms of energy.
And its actually, within a year -- especially if I get certain pipelines built -- it wont even be close. Well be double what other countries are. It used to be Saudi Arabia and Russia; now its United States, Saudi Arabia, and Russia. So weve made tremendous strides. Poland is buying a lot of LNG. Its going to buy billions and billions of dollars worth of LNG from us, and we appreciate that.
Thats right.
Well, were looking at it. Look, people have a right to do what they want to do. I think its a -- you know, something that Ive been looking at and Im thinking about. And Im the one that brought up the pipeline problem where you have Russia giving a tremendous percentage of energy. You know this gas is going into Germany.
I say, "How can you do that?" So, were protecting Germany from Russia. And Russia is getting billions and billions of dollars of money from Germany. Im the one that brought up the problem. With that being said, I hope they get along. But Russia is paying 1 percent, as I said. Theyre not paying 2 percent.
They should be paying much more -- Germany. That Germany is paying 1 percent; they should be paying 2 percent. They should really be paying more than that. But well see how that works out. No, I think this: We have something much better. We have tremendous LNG -- liquefied natural gas. And a lot of the European countries are wanting it, including yourselves.
I mean, tremendous amounts are being sold to different places all over the world, but also to Europe. And I think thats really the way, if they want to spend a tremendous amount of money. I do think this: And I would say, hopefully, nothing will happen. Nothing negative. Hopefully, were going to have a great relationship with Russia, great relationship with China and with Germany, and everybody else.
But I do think that Germany is putting themselves at a tremendous disadvantage when 50, 60, or 70 percent of their energy is being supplied by Russia. I dont know how you can do it.
Well, Germany -- no, no, let me explain it differently. Germany has the power to block it. You know how they block it? By not buying it. I mean, Germany made a decision to buy a tremendous percentage of their energy from Russia. Germany -- whether they should be doing that or not, theyre the ones that have the power to block it. They shouldnt buy it. Or, if they want to, they can.
But thats really a decision of Germany. Im not saying that I would be in favor. I think the German people arent very happy about it. Because it really makes Germany a hostage of Russia if things ever happened that were bad. Hopefully that will never be -- happen. Okay. Go ahead.
Well, I would think they would.
Sure. I would think they would. I hope they defend themselves.
I would think they would defend themselves. Iran is not the same country. When I became President, Iran was a terror all over the world. They had just made this horrible deal for the United States -- the Iran Nuclear Deal. And I became President and I terminated the deal. And Iran now is in chaos. Its got a lot of problems.
I dont want them to be that way. But were stopping their oil. Were stopping a lot of different things. We just stopped, two weeks ago, the steel, metals -- all metals, all forms of metals. And, as you know, they have tremendous inflation. They have a lot of problems. I dont want them to have problems.
The problem could be solved, but you know what they have to do. And they didnt do it properly. And the deal that President Obama made was a horrible deal. It was a horrible deal -- $150 billion; $1.8 billion in cash. It was a horrible deal, and I terminated the deal very nicely. I terminated the deal.
Since I terminated that deal, Iran is not the same country. But I -- with all of it being said, hopefully well able to get along with Iran. If we can, thats great. And if we cant, thats great too.
Venezuela is, obviously, in flux. Its doing unbelievably badly. This was, Mr. President, one of the richest countries. Had tremendous oil, tremendous everything. It just shows you, when you have a bad system, it became a socialistic system, or worse. And now people dont have food. They dont have water.
They dont have anything. Its a very sad thing. Were watching Venezuela very closely.
Well, lets just see whos right. You know what youre going to do? Youre going to see in the end whos right. Okay?
You just watch it. Okay? And well see whos right. Ultimately, Im always right. Yeah. Go ahead.
Ill be meeting with Putin at the G20. Ill be meeting with President Xi at the G20. Ill be meeting with many of the leaders at the G20.
Well, its probably easier because you people are so untrusting. So its probably better if I -- would you like to be in the room? Okay?
Would you like to be? I can imagine you would be.
I think its probably easier is we have people in the room because you people dont trust anything. Go ahead.
Well, the First Ladies know each other. They get along with each other. Theyre going out to lunch right after this. Would you like to say something?
Were looking at that, actually. Were looking at that. Thats the kind of a relationship we have with Poland. We are looking very strongly at visa requirements, with respect to Poland.
Well know pretty soon. Something could happen.
Step.
Big step.
Well, because our country has been so successful over the last two and half years, its been incredible -- our GDP numbers, our production numbers, our manufacturing employment numbers. We have the most people working in our country that weve ever had. Were almost up to 160 million people. Weve never been close.
And because the United States has become so successful, in terms of its economic and what it means -- the economy of the United States -- tremendous numbers of people are trying to come into our country. And Im saying you cant do that. You have to come in legally, and you have to come in through merit.
Now, a lot of things are happening, but Mexico stepped up to the plate. Perhaps it was because of the tariffs. I would say "perhaps" being defined as 99 percent. But that doesnt matter because the President of Mexico and I have a very, very excellent relationship. We spoke. His people were here for two and half, three days, working intensively on the agreement.
And I think its going to mean a lot of -- a lot fewer people coming up. You just cant crash our borders like this. Mexico has very, very strong immigration laws. We have incompetent -- we have the worst immigration laws, the dumbest laws anywhere in the world -- anywhere in the world. Theres nothing close.
But Mexicos laws are as strong as they can be. Now, Mexico is moving 6,000 troops to their southern border. Thats a lot of troops. Thats a lot more -- we never even heard of a number like that. Thats a lot of troops. But thats what they want to do because they want to produce. I think Mexico really wants to produce.
If Mexico does a great job, then youre not going to have very many people coming up. If they dont, then we have phase two. Phase two is very tough. But I think theyre going to do a good job. Now, with all of that being said, if the Democrats got together with me for 15 minutes, we could wipe out the loopholes and we wouldnt need anything from anybody.
But, right now, Mexico is helping us much more on immigration than the Democrats in the U.S.
Phase two is a much tougher phase. Much tougher.
Yeah. I do.
Well, at 1:55, were going to have the worlds greatest fighter jet -- most advanced plane, probably, anywhere in the world beyond fighter jet; most advanced plane. And at 1:55 to 2:00 -- we have to hurry because we have to make it, so well end with this question -- were going to have two Super F-35s flying at a great rate of speed, and then theyre doing a second flyback.
And I think theyre going to go straight up. So theyre going to put on a very small show for us, but its going to be something. And were doing that because Poland has ordered 32 or 35 brand new F-35s at the highest level and the latest model. And I congratulate you on that. That means you have good taste.
Well, because the United States has a tremendous Polish population. They were very much in favor. They liked me and I like them, and a lot of them voted for Trump. And Ive always loved the Polish people, and Ive always respected the Polish people. Theyre very, very hardworking and theyre smart.
