Donald Trump|Press Conference: Donald Trump Holds 2nd Press Conference on Russia, Manafort|August 10, 2017
Thank you very much. We appreciate it. We are having a meeting today. We actually had a much larger group than this. This is the finals. But we discussed many things. One of them obviously was North Korea. We discussed Venezuela.
We discussed Afghanistan and the Middle East, generally. We had some very good meetings, some very good ideas, very good thoughts, and lot of decisions were made. This was a very important day, actually. We made a lot of decisions. With that, if you have any questions. Yes?
Yeah, were getting close. Were getting very close. Its a very big decision for me. I took over a mess, and were going to make it a lot less messy. But that has been a place -- 17 years -- our longest war, I read in one of your columns. And, frankly, its going to be a decision thats going to be made very soon.
Yes, I do. General McMaster -- absolutely. Hes our friend. Hes my friend. And hes a very talented man. I like him and I respect him.
No, no. Look, I have great respect for the community. I think I have great support -- or Ive had great support from that community. I got a lot of votes. But the transgender -- the military is working on it now. Theyre doing the work. Its been a very difficult situation.
And I think Im doing a lot of people a favor by coming out and just saying it. As you know, its been a very complicated issue for the military. Its been a very confusing issue for the military. And I think Im doing the military a great favor.
No. I want to thank him because were trying to cut down on payroll. And as far as Im concerned, Im very thankful that he let go of a large number of people because now we have a smaller payroll. Theres no real reason for them to go back. So I greatly appreciate the fact that theyve been able to cut our payroll for the United States. Well save a lot of money.
I thought it was a very, very strong signal or whatever. I know Mr. Manafort. I havent spoken to him in a long time, but I know him. He was with the campaign, as you know, for a very short period of time -- relatively short period of time. But Ive always known him to be a good man.
I thought it was a very, you know -- they do that very seldom. So I was surprised to see it. I was very, very surprised to see it. We havent really been involved.
Excuse me?
No, I have not. I have not. But to do that early in the morning, whether or not is was appropriate, youd have to ask them. Ive always found Paul Manafort to be a very decent man. And hes like a lot of other people -- probably makes consultant fees from all over the place. Who knows. I dont know. But I thought that was a very -- that was pretty tough stuff, to wake him up. Perhaps his family was there. I think thats pretty tough stuff.
Its fine. It is what it is. Its fine. Hes working hard on the border. Im very proud of what weve done on the border. Im very proud of General Kelly, what hes done on the border. One of the reasons hes my Chief of Staff right now is because he did such an outstanding job at the border.
Were down 78 percent. Nobody thought that would be -- I mean, in the old days, with other administrations, if you were down 1 percent, it was considered a big thing. Were down 78 percent at the border, and nobody thought that was possible. So Im very proud of General Kelly. Hes now Chief of Staff.
At the same time, Im very proud of what weve done over the last six months, between Supreme Court, between tremendous amounts of legislation thats been passed. We had 42 to 48 bills passed. Im not talking about just executive orders, Im talking about bills passed.
We had massive executive orders. We got rid of record-setting amounts of regulations, and a lot of it is statutory, where its a 90-day period that you have to wait. Then its another 90-day period, and you have to wait 30 days. Much more is coming now.
And I believe in regulation. You have to have to some regulation. But were going to have a small percentage of regulation compared to what we have. And I think thats why you see business enthusiasm is the highest its been in 18 years; why unemployment is the lowest its been in 18 years
And the unemployment rate just came out; its the lowest its been in 18 years. And with that being said, we have companies moving into the United States, whether its Foxconn. You saw the two large auto companies moving back; probably theyll go to Michigan, but theyre negotiating with various states. We have had -- we have done a lot in a short period of time. So Im very proud of it. I think that General Kelly is going to be a fantastic Chief of Staff, however.
We are going to look at whats happening in Asia. Were looking at it right now. Were constantly looking at it. I dont like to signal what Im going to be doing, but we are certainly looking at it. And obviously were spending a lot of time looking at -- in particular, North Korea.
And we are preparing for many different, alternative events if North Korea -- if -- he has disrespected our country greatly. He has said things that are horrific. And with me, hes not getting away with it. He got away with it for a long time, between him and his family. Hes not getting away with it. Its a whole new ballgame.
And hes not going to be saying those things, and hes certainly not going to be doing those things. I read about, Were in Guam by August 15th. Lets see what he does with Guam. If he does something in Guam, it will be an event the likes of which nobody has seen before -- what will happen in North Korea.
Youll see. Youll see. And hell see. He will see.
Its not a dare, its a statement. It has nothing to do with dare. Thats a statement. Hes not going to go around threatening Guam, and hes not going to threaten the United States. And hes not going to threaten Japan, and hes not going to threaten South Korea. No, thats not a dare, as you say. That is a statement of fact.
Yeah. Nuclear to me -- number one: I would like to de-nuke the world. I know that President Obama said global warming is the biggest threat. I totally disagree. I say that its a simple one: Nuclear is our greatest threat worldwide. Not even a question, not even close. So Id like to de-nuke the world. I would like Russia and the United States and China and Pakistan, and many other countries that have nuclear weapons, get rid of them.
But until such time as they do, we will be the most powerful nuclear nation on Earth by far. The first order I gave to my generals, as you know -- you know, Mike -- my first order was: I want this, our nuclear arsenal, to be the biggest and the finest in the world. And we spent a lot of money, a lot of time, and a lot of effort.
And its in tip-top shape, and getting better and getting stronger. And until such time as this scourge disappears, we will be so much better and so much stronger than anybody else. And nobody, including North Korea, is going to be threatening us with anything.
Weve done a lot of modernization, but weve done a lot of renovation. And we have it now in very, very good shape. And it will be in much better shape over the next six months to a year. Its a very important thing. Actually, it was the first -- the military is very important to me. As you know, I did extremely well with the military vote, Mike and I.
But we are -- my first order was, we have to do the military, but before we do the military per se, were going to do the nuclear. And we are in very strong shape. We are going to be increasing our budget by many billions of dollars because of North Korea and other reasons having to do with the anti-missile. So we are going to be increasing our budget by many billions of dollars. Well probably be able to report that over the next week.
As you know, we reduced it by 5 percent, but Ive decided I dont want that. Were going to be increasing the anti-missiles by a substantial amount of billions of dollars.
I dont think Iran is in compliance. We wrote them a very tough letter to the -- as you know, to the Congress. I personally dont think theyre in compliance. But we have time, and were going to see. We also put down a lot of defaults, or potential default situations. I dont think theyre living up to the spirit of the agreement.
President Obama in his wisdom gave them $150 billion. He gave them $1.8 billion in cash, which is -- thats a hard one to figure. But that was his decision. I think its a horrible agreement. But they are not in compliance with the agreement, and they are certainly not in the spirit of the agreement in compliance.
And I think youll see some very strong things taking place if they dont get themselves in compliance. But I do not believe they are in compliance right now.
Yeah, sure. Were looking. Were always looking. You have two leaks. You have the leaks coming out of intelligence and various departments having to do with Syria, having to do with all sorts of different places, having to do, frankly, with North Korea.
And those are very serious. And then you have the leaks where people want to love me and theyre all fighting for love.  Those are not very important, but certainly we dont like them. Those are little inner-White House leaks. Theyre not very important. But, actually, Im somewhat honored by them.
But the important leaks to me -- and theyre leaks that the Attorney General is looking at very strongly -- are the leaks coming out of intelligence. And we have to stop them for the security and the national security of our country.
No, not notes. Were working with him. I mean, we have a situation which is very unusual. Everybody said theres no collusion. If you look at the counsels that come in, we have a Senate hearing, we have judiciary, we have intelligence, and we have a House hearing. And everybody walks out, even the enemies, and they said, no, there is no collusion, theres no collusion.
So theyre investigating something that never happened. There was no collusion between us and Russia. In fact, the opposite. Russia spent a lot of money on fighting me. And if you think about it, I want a strong military. You see our budget is up by -- it will be hundreds of billions of dollars, our military budget. Russia doesnt like that. Hillary was going to cut the budget substantially, the military budget.
Russia is -- very important for Russia -- oil. Oil and gas. We are now an exporter -- because of an incredible six months that I have -- an exporter of oil and gas. Thats bad for Russia.
I always said, I dont think Russia wants me because I want a strong military and I want low energy prices. Energy is a disaster. Low energy prices is a disaster for Russia. Additionally, it seems that Russia spent a lot of money on that false report, and that was Russian money, and I think it was Democrat money, too. You could say that was collusion. Plus, the Democrats colluded on the Ukraine.
So they colluded. And then when you get down to it, why isnt the FBI looking at the DNC server? You have a server that they refuse -- the Democrats refuse to give to the FBI. Now, I dont know how the FBI can investigate something if the DNC, the Democrats, refuse to give the server.
So we have an investigation of something that never took place. And all I say is, work with them -- because this is an event that never took place. Now, as far as somebody else, where did they file the right papers or did they forget to file a paper, you know, I guarantee if you went around to look at everybody that made a speech or whatever these people did, thats up to them.
Did they do something wrong because they didnt file the right document or whatever? Perhaps. Youll have to look at them. But I guarantee you this: Probably a lot of people in Washington did the same thing.
Well, well have to see. Im not sure that we will bring them in. I mean, maybe well bring them in, maybe not. I think the infrastructure bill will be bipartisan. In fact, frankly, it may have more support from the Democrats. I want a very strong infrastructure bill.
Weve, as of this moment, spent over $6 trillion in the Middle East. As far as Im concerned, when I say "spent," weve wasted $6 trillion in the Middle East, and yet we cant fix our roads and our bridges and our schools and our airports. And I think thats a very sad situation. So Im very strong on infrastructure, and a lot of Republicans are, but I know a lot of Democrats are also. I think that will work out. I think its going to work out very well.
I havent given it any thought. I mean, Ive been reading about it from you people. You say, oh, Im going to dismiss him. No, Im not dismissing anybody. I mean, I want them to get on with the task, but I also want the Senate and the House to come out with their findings.
Now, judging from the people leaving the meetings -- leaks -- but they leave the meetings all the time and they say, no, we havent found any collusion. There is no collusion. You know why? Because I dont speak to Russians.
Look, I won because I suppose I was a much better candidate than her. I won because I went to Wisconsin, I went to Michigan, I won Pennsylvania. I fought a smart battle. Thats why I win. I didnt win because of Russia. Russia had nothing to do with me winning.
We had a great team, and I guess I did a good job. And you know what, honestly, they spent much more money than I did, by a lot. You know that. They spent a lot more money, and, honestly, they did not do a very good job of campaigning.
No.
Elaine is doing a very good job. Were very proud of Elaine as Secretary of Transportation -- as you know -- as you said, Mitchs wife. She is doing a very, very good job. Im very disappointed in Mitch. But if he gets these bills passed, Ill be very happy with him.
Ill be the first to admit it. But honestly, repeal and replace of Obamacare should have taken place, and it should have been on my desk virtually the first week that I was there -- or the first day that I was there. Ive been hearing about it for seven years.
So repeal and replace should have taken place. The tax bill, tax cuts, tax reform, hopefully they get that done. I hope they get it done. And the other thing would be the infrastructure bill.
In addition to that -- you know, weve passed a lot of things. We passed accountability with the VA. We passed a lot. Were doing a lot of great work at the VA. And were doing a lot of great work all over. You look at whats happening with the coal industry where theyre putting on -- I mean, I looked at West Virginia the other day -- I was in West Virginia making a speech, and they are doing great as a state.
The great governor of West Virginia, Jim -- who you saw -- he just became a Republican. He left. This is the first time in many, many years that a thing like thats happened. He just left the Democratic Party and he became a Republican, which was a great moment. Hasnt happened in many years.
So were very, very happy with whats happened. We think its been an incredible six months. Weve done a lot of record-setting business. Its incredible. You look at whats going on with the economy. And, you know, to me, very important, you look at the enthusiasm of businesses. You look at companies moving back in. You just saw on Friday the two big car companies that are coming in.
You saw last week, Foxconn. They make the Apple iPhones -- they make all of it -- desktops. Theyre the biggest in the world. Theyre coming into Wisconsin with an unbelievable plant like weve never seen before.
And I actually said to Tim Cook of Apple -- I said, you know, Tim, I wont consider myself successful as President unless I see you start building those big, beautiful plants that you have all over China -- if you start building them in the United States. And hes going to do that.
Well, its different intelligence. I have Mike Pompeo. I have great confidence in him. That doesnt mean I had confidence in his predecessor. Okay? Which I didnt, actually, although --
Although he did say good things about me. He did say he had no information or no anything on collusion. So I shouldnt maybe say that, but I will say it. But I have tremendous confidence in Mike Pompeo. Dan Coats, fantastic. I mean, we have people. I think your new head of the FBI is going to be -- I think Ive done a great service for this country. I think that Christopher will do a fantastic job as the head of the FBI.
So, look, nobody has greater respect for intelligence than Donald Trump, but you have to have the right leaders. I think we have great leaders right now. And you can look at the intelligence over the years. It was intelligence that got people to make one of the worst decisions ever made in the history of our country -- going into Iraq. Because they said there were no weapons.
You know, you look at it -- it ended up being there were no weapons of mass destruction. I mean, listening to them, they said weapons of mass destruction were all over the place, but they were not there. That was intelligence.
I have great respect for intelligence as led by the people that I have in charge now. We have great people, and I think its going to lead us to tremendous victories. And thats what we need.
Its telling me a lot of things, but youll probably find out about it before anybody else, right?  With your leaks. We got to stop the leaks. The leaks are very dangerous for our country. But I have great respect for the intelligence community. And I think with the leadership we have right now, hopefully it will be a very, very successful eight years for this country. And then, after that, well continue onward.
But we have a lot of things we have to straighten out. You have the Middle East, you have North Korea. We have a lot of places of tremendous conflict and tremendous danger for this country.
I will say, getting the 15-0 vote at the United Nations from the Security Council the other day, thats something that very few Presidents would have been able to get. And I have great respect for the fact that China and Russia went along with it.
