Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Signs an Executive Order on Education|April 26, 2017
Well, thank you very much, Vice President Pence, who has done an absolutely outstanding job as Vice President. We very much appreciate it. And I want to thank also Education Secretary Betsy DeVos for spearheading out effort to restore state and local control of our schools. Thank you very much, Betsy. With her help, we are empowering those who know our students best -- I would say, by far, the best, right, Betsy? -- their parents and the teachers, so that every child has the chance to succeed.
In fact, were proud to have some of those wonderful teachers here with us today, and wed like to welcome all of them to the White House. Its a great honor.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
I also want to thank members of Congress, local leaders, and governors for joining us here today, including Governor Ivey of Alabama, a new and great governor. You will be fantastic. Ive been hearing about you for years in the positive way, so Im not surprised that youre governor of Alabama. Congratulations. Tremendous.
Governor Branstad, who is soon going to be heading out, I suspect, to a place called China. They love him, I will tell you. They really love the soon-to-be ambassador, but he also loves China. So, it was a good combination. I was very happy to put it together. There looking forward to seeing you. Very much so. Thank you. Thank you, Governor.
Governor LePage of Maine, Governor Sandoval of Nevada, Governor Herbert of Utah, Governor Mead of Wyoming -- we want to thank you all and everyone else for being with us. Its really an honor to have you in White House.
For too long, the federal government has imposed its will on state and local governments. The result has been education that spends more and achieves far, far, far less. My administration has been working to reverse this federal power grab and give power back to families, cities, states. Give power back to localities.
Before this administration, only one time in our nations history had a President signed a bill that used the Congressional Review Act to cancel a federal regulation. In less than 100 days, I have signed 13 bills such congressional resolutions to cancel federal regulations and give power back to the people, and Im very honored to have done so.  Thats true. As you said, five have come from your committee, thats exactly right. Good job. I think shes done a good job.
Ive also signed over a dozen executive actions that reverse federal intrusion and empower local communities. The executive order Im signing today is another critical step to restoring local control, which is so important.
This executive order directs Secretary DeVos to review current federal regulations and ensure that they dont obstruct the ability of states, local governments, teachers, and most importantly, parents, to make the best decisions for their students and, in many cases, for their children.
Previous administrations have wrongfully forced states and schools to comply with federal whims and dictate what our kids are taught. But we know that local communities do it best and know it best. The time has come to empower parents and teachers to make the decisions that help their students achieve success. Thats what this executive order is all about. So important.
Thomas Jefferson put it best when he said, I believe the states can best govern our home concerns. With this executive order and the many actions we have taken in less than 100 days, we are providing our states and communities with control over the matters that are most important to them. Together we are going to fight to give our children the bright and beautiful future they deserve.
So I want to thank you all. As you know, Im heading over to a Senate meeting. Its a very important meeting. So Ill be leaving now, but I just wanted to introduce our really exceptional Education Secretary. Shes caught on -- you wouldnt believe it, all of the great things Im hearing about you, Betsy. Im very proud. So, Secretary Betsy DeVos. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Always.
Oh, its going to be a short speech because I -- I just felt I had to stay here.
Education for North Korea.  I like education.
This is a good one, right -- on federal control of education. Doesnt get better than that, right?
