Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Melbourne, Florida|February 18, 2017
Thank you. Let us pray. Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed is your name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespasses against us. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Good afternoon. It is my honor and great pleasure to stand here before you as the First Lady of the United States. The mid— the America we envision is one that works for all Americans, and where all Americans can work and succeed. A nation committed to a greater civility and unity between people from all sides of the political divide. I will always stay true to myself and be truthful to you, no matter what the opposition is saying about me.
I will act in the best interest of all of you. I am committed to creating and supporting initiatives geared to my heart, which will have impacts on women and children all around the world.
My husband is creating a country of great safety and prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, Im proud to introduce the President of the United States, Donald Trump.
Thank you, everybody, thank you. I didnt know that Melania was going to be saying the Lords Prayer, but I thought that was very beautiful, thank you, thank you.
Its so great to be here in Florida. My second home with you. This is a state I truly love. This is a state where we all had great victory together. Thank you.
Its now been a month since my inauguration. And I am here to tell you about our incredible progress in making America great again. Im also here to tell you about our plans for the future and theyre big and theyre bold and Its what our country is all about, believe me.
Im here because I want to be among my friends and among the people. This was a great movement, a movement like has never been seen before in our country our probably anywhere else. This was a truly great movement And I want to be here with you, and I will always be with you. I promise you that. I want to be in a room filled with hard working American patriots who love their country, who salute their flag and who pray for a better future.
I also want to speak to you without the filter of the fake news. The dishonest media which has published one false story after another with no sources, even though they pretend they have them, they make them up in many cases, they just dont want to report the truth and theyve been calling us wrong now for two years. They dont get it. By theyre starting to get it. I can tell you that. Theyve become a big part of the problem. They are part of the corrupt system. Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Jackson, and Abraham Lincoln and many of our greatest presidents fought with the media and called them out often times on their lies. When the media lies to people, I will never, ever let them get away with it. I will do whatever I can that. They dont get away with it.
They have their own agenda and their agenda is not your agenda. In fact, Thomas Jefferson said, “nothing can be believed which is seen in a newspaper.” “Truth itself,” he said, “becomes suspicious by being put into that polluted vehicle,” that was June 14, my birthday, 1807. But despite all their lies, misrepresentations, and false stories, they could not defeat us in the primaries, and they could not defeat us in the general election, and we will continue to expose them for what they are, and most importantly, we will continue to win, win, win.
We are not going to let the fake news tell us what to do, how to live, or what to believe. We are free and independent people and we will make our own choices.
We are here today to speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. I hear your demands, I hear your voices and I promise you I will deliver. I promise that. And by the way, youve seen what weve accomplished in a very short period of time. The White House is running so smoothly. So smoothly. And believe me, I and we inherited one big mess. That I can tell you, but I know that you want safe neighborhoods where the streets belong to families and communities, not gang members and drug dealers who are right now as I speak being thrown out of the country and they will not be let back in.
We will have strong borders again, and I mean that. Youve seen it in television. Youve seen it on television. General Kelly, now Secretary Kelly, hes really doing the job. Youre seeing it. The gang members, bad, bad people. I said day one, and theyre going out. Or theyre being put in prison, but for the most part, get them the hell out of here. Bring them back to where they came from.
The fact is, you want great schools for your children. You want good high paying jobs for yourselves and for your loved ones and for the future of your families. You want a health care system and by the way, we are going to be submitting in a couple of weeks a great healthcare plan thats going to take the place of the disaster known as Obamacare.
It will be repealed and replaced. For those people. The people put into rooms where Republicans are talking about the plan, and it wouldnt matter what they say, for those people just so you understand, our plan will be much better health care at a much lower coast. Okay? Nothing to complain about. Obamacare remember, it is a disaster.
You want low cost American energy also, which means lifting the restrictions on oil, on shell, on natural gas and on clean, very clean coal. Were going to put the miners back to work. The miners go back to work.
You want us to enforce immigration laws and defend our borders.
You want fair trade deals and a level playing field. We dont have a level playing field. Because you understand that when American workers win, America as a country wins and wins big. And every country over the last long period of time has been taking advantage of the  of our politicians. Its not going to happen any longer.
You want lower taxes. Less regulation. Millions of new jobs and more product stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words, “Made in the USA.” You want to make it easy for companies to do business in America. And harder for companies to leave. We dont want companies saying, everybody is fired. Were moving to another country. Were going to make the product. Sell it across the border and isnt that wonderful. Not going happen anymore.
Were going to have strong borders and when they want to sell that product back across our border, theyre going to pay a 35% tax and you know what, theyre never going to leave. They will never, ever leave.
And youve seen that because Ive already displayed it for the last two months even before I got into office. Theyre not leaving. And if they do, theyre going to pay a big price for terminating the relationship with our workers. You want a government that serves the people not the donors and special interest. You want a government that keeps its promises.
A great spirit of optimism is sweeping and you see it. its sweeping all across the country. Look at whats happening to the stock market. Look at whats happening to the every poll when it comes to optimism in our country. Its sweeping across the country. And, in fact, every day for the last long period of days this stock market means, companies, have been hitting new highs. Theyre going to start highs. Its going to be a new day in America. Youre going to be proud again.
Jobs are already starting to pour back in. Theyre coming back in like you havent seen in a long time. Ford, General Motors, Fiat, Chrysler are bringing in and bringing back thousands of jobs investing billions of dollars because of the new business climate that we are creating in our country. In Arizona, Intel, great company, just announced it will open a new plant that will create at least 10,000 brand new beautiful American jobs.
I followed through on my promise to withdraw from the job killing disaster known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership. TPP, we have just terminated our relationship to it. Were going to have tremendous trade deals all over the world, but theyre going to be bilateral or as we would say, one-on-one. None of these deals where we get caught in quicksand. Get mired in and we cant do anything about it. By the way, NAFTA and so many others.
My administration has begun plans to crack down on foreign cheating and currency manipulation which is killing our companies and really, really hurting our workers. Were going to end it.
Within a few days of taking the oath of office, Ive taken steps to begin the construction of the Keystone and the Dakota Access Pipelines. Anywhere from 30-40,000 jobs. And very importantly, as I was about to sign it, I said who makes the pipe? Who makes the pipe? Something this audience understands very well, right? Simple question. The lawyers put this very complex document in front. I said, who makes the pipe? They said, sir, it can be made anywhere. I said not anymore. I put a little clause in the bottom. The pipe has to be made in the United States of America if were going to have pine line.
We believe in two simple rules. I can tell you everybody in this massive, this is a massive hanger. For the big planes. And by the way, do you think that one media group back there, one network will show this crowd. Not one. Not one. They wont show the crowd. You know, coming in on the plane, and that plane represented so much.
And just so you know, they were close to signing a $4.2 billion deal to have a new Air Force One. Can you believe this? I said no way. I said I refuse to fly in a $4.2 billion airplane. I refuse. So I got Boeing and it is actually — a lot of people dont know. The Air Force One project is actually two planes. Why they need to planes, well have to talk about that, but they have two planes, but weve got that price down over a billion dollars and I probably have it spoken to be honest with you for honest probably an more than an hour on the project. I got the generals in who are fantastic. I got Boeing in. I told Boeing its not good enough. Were still not going to do it. The price is still too high. On the fighter jet. We were hundreds of billions of dollars over budget. Seven years late, great plane. A great plane.
So think of it. Theyre seven years late. Hundreds of billions of dollars over-budget. Other than that by the way the project is going extremely well. And I got the folks in from Lockheed Martin who are terrific people and a terrific product by the way. I also got Boeing in. I said do me a favor, give me a competing offer. And now theyre competing and fighting and weve gotten hundreds of millions of dollars off the price of a plane that was going to be ordered, in other words, if my opponent got in, there would have been no calls made to them. They would have signed contracts. So theyre going to make plenty of money, but its going to be a lot less than they would have made without Trump. That I can tell you. You might as well know about it. Nobody talks. By the way, thats for fighter jets. One of the biggest orders in the history of aviation. The order for the F-35. Youve been reading about it because it was a disaster. Under the last administration. A disaster. And now we have it running beautifully.
In fact, when the Prime Minister of Japan, Prime Minister Abe, was great. Great guy. When he came over, he said, thank you. I said for what. You saved us many, many millions of dollars on the F-35 fighter jet. Because when I negotiated, I took our allies into the same negotiation. So the first thing he did was thanked med for saving them money and thats good. Okay. Thats good. I know the media will never thank me so at least Japan is thanking me, right?
But we believe in two simple rules. Buy American and hire American. We believe it. Weve just issued a new order which requires that for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. And by the way, a new director was just approved. Can you imagine the length of time its taken to Democrats and I actually think its an embarrassment to them, but this is getting in to be record setting time. Incredible people.
Scott Pruitt was just approved, just now approved for the Environmental Protection Agency. Hell do so good. He wont have projects going ten and 12 years and getting rejected. They may be rejected, but theyll be rejected quickly. For the most part, theyre going to be accepted. Theyre going to be environmentally friendly and he is going to be a great Secretary. He will be amazing. Were very happy. That took place yesterday. Thats going to be a big difference because they were clogging up the veins of our country with the environmental impact statements and all of the rules and regulations. It was impossible to navigate for companies.
And what did it really mean? Forget about the companies? What did it mean. It meant no jobs. It meant companies leaving our country and going to foreign countries to do things they would rather do here. So were going to have a whole big situation. We are going to unfreeze all of those companies. They are going to be — theyre going have freedom. Be able to build what they want to build. It will be environmentally friendly and were going to start producing jobs like youve never seen before. Thats going to happen. That was a big thing.
Were standing up for the incredible men and women always of law enforcement. Were standing up. And I can tell you, the military and law enforcement they stood up. I dont say for me. Im the messenger folks. Im the messenger. They stood up for us in this last election. We got numbers that nobody believed were possible from law enforcement and from military. Basically people they wear uniforms like us. Isnt that nice. I saw this man on TV just now, you. I just saw him on television. He said I love Trump. Let Trump do what he has to do. Thats my guy right there. Come here. Come here. No, I just. Im coming in. Thats okay.
Let him up. Im not worried about him. Im only worried hes going to give me a kiss. Im not worried about anything else. This guy is so great. He was one of many people. Theyre interviewing people in the line. And I have to say, there was a tiny group of protesters out there and they were given as much publicity as this massive room packed with people, but they interviewed this man. Come on up here. Come on up. Guy was great. Hop over the fence. Come on. He can do it. Hes in good shape. Look at him. Look at this guy. Come on. This guy is great. Dont worry about him. No, no. Come here. Theyre going to — come on up. Come here.
This guy. So hes been all over television saying the best things and I see him standing and didnt you get here at like 4 in the morning.
I did sir.
Say a couple of words to this crowd.
Mr. President, thank you sir. We the people, our movement is the reason why our President of the United States is standing here in front of us today. When President Trump during the election promised all these things that he was going to do for us, I knew he was going to do this for us. Thank you so much, sir.
A star is born.
A star is born. Thats fine.
I wouldnt say that Secret Service was thrilled with that, but we know our people, right? We know our people. Great guy. And so many others. I see some others. Being interviewed. I see them over here. They started. They came at 4 in the morning. The media will give them no credit. The media, as I told you, wont show this crowd.
All the way outside of this — this is a big a hanger as you get. All the way outside. Way back to the fences. Amazing. I want to thank you, but I want to thank everybody.
Ive directed the Department of Justice to take a firm, firm stance to protect our cops, sheriffs, and police from crimes of violence against them. We will work with our police not against our police, our police do a great job and theyve never been troubled like theyre troubled now. Its very unfair whats happening. So we want to cherish our law enforcement. We will always protect those who protect us.
Weve directed the creation of a task force for reducing violent crime in America, including our inner cities. Were going to make our inner cities safe again. Look at whats going on. Look at whats happening in Chicago. Hundreds of shootings, hundreds of deaths. Ill tell you whats happening in Chicago and many other places. Safety is a civil right. And we will fight to make America totally safe again.
Ive ordered the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to coordinate on a plan to destroy transnational criminal cartels which are all over the United States and we are going to stop the drugs from pours into your country, into your community, into your cities and poisoning our youth. Were stopping it. Were stopping it. Weve taken historic action to secure the southern border and Ive ordered the construction of a great border wall, which will start very shortly.
And Ive taken decisive action to keep radical Islamic terrorist the hell out of our country. So you probably read where we want to enforce the laws as existing. And so we signed an order a couple of weeks ago, and it was taken over by a court originally by a judge and then a — yes, its very sad. The reason is for protection and safety. So the statute is so plain and so clear.
I said last week, I was speaking to a great group of sheriffs, the sheriffs group in Washington, and I said if you have a college education, you can understand its. If you have a high school education, you can understand it. If you were a bad student in high school, you can understand it.
I was told. Ill check, but I found it hard to believe, over 30-page decision by the appellate court. Three judges. And you could tell by the way they were reacting because it was broadcast on television. Everything we do gets a lot of people watching. So you could tell by the way that phone call went, wasnt looking good. When they wrote their decision, as I understand it. Maybe Im wrong.
They didnt write the statute they were making the decision about because every word of the statute is a total kill for the other side. So I thought I would read it. And heres what it says. This is what it says: “Whenever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or any class of aliens into the United States” — okay. So essentially. Whenever somebody comes into the United States. Right.
“If it would be detrimental to the interest of the United States” — okay. Now you know the countrys were talking about and these were countries picked by Obama. They werent even picked. They were picked by Obama.
“He may,” so the President may, “by proclamation and for such period as he shall deem necessary” — now, because it should have said he or she, right. They were not politically correct when they drew this. In fact, thats the only thing that was actually wrong with it. He or she. I dont think the women care too much about that. Right? I dont think so. By the way, we did very well with women. You know, my wife said when some of these phony polls were put out, the CNN poll was so far off, the phony polls. When some of these, she said, whats wrong with you and women. We did very nicely with women. We did nicely with a lot of groups they didnt think we were going to do so nicely with. I guess we had to. Thats why were all here tonight. Right?
So and it goes, “for such as he shall seem necessary suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants or impose on aliens any restriction he may deem to be appropriate.” So basically it says the president has the right to keep people out if he feels its not in the best interest of our country. Right? Unbelievable. Unbelievable. And I listened to these judges talk and talk and talk. So unfair. So well be doing something over the next couple of days. We dont give up. We never give up.
We had a court that I disagree with. I disagree with big league — and by the way, whether you read it or whether you watch it on television when other lawyers come on, many of them cant even understand. Theyre saying how do you come up with that decision. It cannot be more simple. So theyre ruling on what I just read you and they dont even quote it in their ruling because you cant because its too obvious. So we will do something next week. I think youll be impressed. Lets see what happens.
Heres the bottom line. Weve got to keep our country safe. You look at whats happening. Weve got to keep our country safe. You look at whats happening in Germany, you look at whats happening last night in Sweden. Sweden, who would believe this. Sweden. They took in large numbers. Theyre having problems like they never thought possible. You look at whats happening in Brussels. You look at whats happening all over the world. Take a look at Nice. Take a look at Paris. Weve allowed thousands and thousands of people into our country and there was no way to vet those people. There was no documentation. There was no nothing. So were going to keep our country safe.
And we all have heart, by the way. And what I want to do is build safe zones in Syria and other places so they can stay there and live safely until their cities and their country, that mess that I was left by Obama and everybody else — folks, we were left a mess like you wouldnt believe, but were going to build safe zones. Were going to have those safe zones.
We do owe $20 trillion. Okay. So were going to have the gulf states pay for those safe zones. Theyve got nothing, but money. Were going to do it that way instead of taking massive numbers. Tens the of thousands of people into our country and we dont know anything about those people. We want people to come into our country, but we want people that love us. We want people that can cherish us and the traditions of our country. We want people that are going to be great for our country. We dont want people with bad, bad ideas. We dont want that.
Ive also directed the defense community headed by General, now — you know, he said it, he said it — and now Secretary ‘Mad Dog’ Mattis, to develop a plan to totally destroy ISIS. I have ordered the department of defense to begin plans for the great rebuilding of the united states military. We will pursue peace through strength. Our military is badly depleted. You have planes in the military. Where the father flew them and now the son is flying them. Their so old. We make the best equipment anywhere in the world. Were going to start using our best and most modern equipment.
And were going to make sure our veterans have the care they need when they come home. We love our veterans. Were going to do a great job for our veterans. Our veterans have been very, very sadly treated. These are our great great people. We owe them so much. Our veterans are going to be taken care of for once and for all. Our system and our country has led down our veterans. We are not going to let that go on any further. You wait and you see what were going to be doing for our great veterans. Thank you veterans. Who is here? Who is a veteran? Were going to take care of our veterans.
Were going to downsize the bloated, bloated bureaucracy which make the government lien and accountable. Were going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. Ive already imposed a five year lobbying ban on the executive branch officials and lifetime ban on lobbying for a foreign government.
And theres another major promise I have kept to the American people. Ive nominated a fantastic justice to replace the late great Justice Scalia. His name is Judge Neil Gorsuch. He comes from my list of 20 very, very highly qualified judges. Hes incredible and has an incredible resume. Hes respected by all. His education is as good as it can get. His writings are truly amazing. He will be a true, true defender of our constitution. So lets tell the Senate Democrats to support his nomination for the good of the country because whats happening with the Democrats — no wonder theyre doing so badly.
No wonder theyre doing so badly. You take a look, race after race, I just want the tell you, in case you didnt read it, of course youre reading the fake news, but the Democrats were supposed to win the presidency. That didnt happen. They were supposed to take over the Senate. That didnt happen. And they were supposed to take over potentially even the House. It was going to be four weeks out the greatest defeat in the modern history of American politics. And it was, but it was for the Democrats, not for the Republicans. So we have to tell the Democrats, because theyre doing the wrong thing for the American people, to stop their tactics of delay and obstruction and destruction. They got to get on with it.
My administration is also pushing ahead strongly with very historic tax reform. We are working to lower tax rates in the middle class to reduce tax rates big league on businesses and to make our tax code more fair and very simple for all Americans so its understandable by everyone. Senate Democrats should work with us to lower taxes and bring back our jobs, but the Democrats want to increase your taxes very, very substantially. Were not going let that happen.
Also time for the Senate Democrats to take responsibility for Obamacare and to work with us to replace it with new reforms that reverse this nation-wide healthcare tragedy. Its a tragedy. You look at some states, Arizona, up 116%. Your deductibles have gone so high you can never use it. Obamacare doesnt work. Its become totally unaffordable. Remember they said the healthcare, its unaffordable. It doesnt work. And I said to the Republicans, I said you want to do something great politically: dont do anything. Sit back for two years, let it explode. The Democrats will come and beg for us to do something, but we cant do that to the American people. We have to fix it. And we will.
We need members of both parties to join hands and work with us to pass a $1 trillion infrastructure plan to build new roads and bridges and airports and tunnels and highways and railways all across our great nation.
Youre all part of this incredible movement. This movement that we talk about so much. Thats been written about on the cover of every magazine all over the world. Its a movement that is just sweeping. Its sweeping across our country. Its sweeping frankly across the globe. Look at Brexit. Look at Brexit. Much smaller example, but its still something you can look at. People want to take back control of their countries and they want to take back control of their lives and the lives of their family.
The nation state remains the best model for human happiness and the American nation remains the greatest symbol of liberty, of freedom and justice on the face of gods earth. And now we have spirit like weve never had before. Its now that we have our sacred duty and we have no choice and we want this choice to defend our country, to protect its values and to serve its great, great citizens. Erasing national borders does not make people safer. It undermines democracy and trade prosperity. Were giving it away.
The so-called global elite have done well for themselves, but left working families with shrinking wages. Really they are shrinking. 18 years ago though many of you in this room made more money working one job than youre making right now working two and three jobs. Instead of peace, weve seen wars that never end and conflicts that never seem to go away. We dont fight to win. We fight politically correct wars. We dont win anymore. We dont win at trade. We dont win in any capacity. We dont win anymore. Were going to start winning again. Believe me.
And we have the chance now working together to deliver change for the ages. This will be change for the ages. Change like never before. To pursue real peace, real stability, and real prosperity. We want to secure our borders and protect our workers. To rebuild our military and our infrastructure. To fix our schools and restore safety to our neighborhoods. To bring hope and opportunity to our inner cities. To ensure a level playing field for all women in the workforce. To reform our tax code and remove the regulations that undermine growth and innovation. And to replace chaos and distrust with community and cooperation. The tired echoes of yesterdays fights. Were fighting battles that no longer help us. Were fighting battles that other people arent treating us fairly in the fight.
Im a NATO fan, but many of the countries in NATO, many of the countries that we protect, many of these countries are very rich countries. Theyre not paying their bills. Theyre not paying their bills. They have to help us. No longer are we chained down by the discredited approaches of the past. No longer must we listen to those who have nothing to brag about, but failure. New circumstances demand new solutions. Americans have fought and won wars together. Our heroes have shed their blood together and lost their lives. Our citizens have raised their children together, fought for justice together, and shared common hopes and dreams from one generation to the next. Stretching back to the first day of our American independence. This is our legacy. It belongs to all of you. And it belongs to every man, woman, and child in our nation.
Now is the time to call upon these deep ties in the name of bold acts. Let us move past the differences party and find a new loyalty rooted deeply in our country. We are all brothers and all sisters. We share one home. One destiny and one glorious American flag. We are united together by history and by providence. We will make America strong again. I promise. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Greater than ever before.
