Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Ambridge, PA|October 10, 2016
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
And we love Big Ben. Big Bens a friend.
We play golf together. He once hit a shot that went head right into a tree. It was a massive tree like this. The ball hit the tree so hard, I swear I said, Ben, within two years, thats trees going to be dead. And you know what? Two years later, hes shooting the same. Its because we have  here.
But two years later, that tree was dead.
He is a strong guy, and hes good guy too. Big Ben.
So Im thrilled to be back in Pennsylvania. Great place. I went to school in Pennsylvania. November 8th, were going to win this state and were going to win back the White House.
Were going to take on the special interests, the corrupt media -- and it is corrupt -- and the career politicians that have stolen your jobs, your wealth and stolen our middle class. Theyve stolen our middle class. Were going to make Pennsylvania rich again by bringing back our jobs. Well bring back our jobs.
And Hillary Clinton doesnt have a clue about how to bring back jobs, that I can tell you . She doesnt have a clue. If she wanted to, she couldnt do it. You know, in New York state, she ran for the Senate. And you know what, the state New York is a disaster for jobs. And she said, Im going to bring back 200
How many have watched the debate last night?
Good . We had a lot of fun. And I would say that Hillary is highly overrated.
It was fun watching . I mean, most of us  unanimous decisions. But some of these people, they were so pain -- it was like a painful experience. But were fighting for you, so whats good for me is good for you. And I mean that totally 100 percent.
And were going to talk about a lot of things today, but I always want you to remember this above all else. Were going to bring back the jobs to Pennsylvania. Were going to bring back steel. Your steel has been stolen from you in this area.
Natural gas, the EPA is killing you and killing your companies and youre losing your jobs. Let me tell you, thats going to turned around on day one if I win. On day one. Your jobs are coming back to Pennsylvania, and theyre coming back to this area. And that means were going to take care of our steel workers and were going to take care of our miners, believe me. Im going to take care of you.
We laid out a goal, uplifting vision for America. Lower taxes, better trade deals -- Ill give you a purse.
And millions and millions of new jobs. But all crooked Hillary can do was talk about small, petty things last night. During the course of 90 minutes, she was exposed and her values were exposed. She had no defense. All she could do was lie. She lied so much last night. They dont like to catch her on the lies.
I explained how Hillary Clinton oversaw the disasters in Libya, including the drawing of the infamous red line. Remember she said, oh, I had nothing -- well, it turned out she was there, by the way. Remember, she said she wasnt there?
The red line was actually drawn in August of 2012. No, she was there. She lied about it. She said she wasnt involved in that catastrophe. But that was just one of many.
Of course, the moderators didnt call her out and they didnt call out this lie that she told. Hillary Clinton said she didnt delete her e-mails after a congressional subpoena. But she did. That was another lie. That was a hard one to believe. How did she say no to that one?
The subpoena -- well, the subpoena was sent on March 4, 2015. Crooked Hillarys e-mails were bleached and destroyed. Now, nobody bleaches them. You know what? Bleaching is so expensive. Its really a very expensive process. But when you bleach them, it pretty much means theyre gone. Although Ive always heard you cant get rid of e-mails. Ive been told you cant. I wonder if the NSA has her e-mails, do you think?
Yeah!
Do you think? I dont think they looked too hard for her e-mails. What do you think, folks? Do you think -- I dont know.
Lock her up!
Ill tell you, I bet -- I dont know this for a fact, but Ill bet within the FBI -- you know, you have some of the greatest Americans in the world that are so proud of the FBI -- and Ill bet you they are sick to their stomachs at whats happening. Sick to their stomachs.
Anyway, her e-mails were destroyed somewhere between March 25th and March 31st after the congressional subpoena was received. You know, if you are suing somebody privately and they delete and get rid of all your stuff that you subpoena, you got a very big consequence. You know what the consequence is, right?
Heres -- heres the United States Congress -- United States Congress subpoenaing to see e-mails and other things and theyre gone. And now, by the way, did you read yesterday? Two boxes of e-mails and materials are now missing.
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Very, very sad. Special prosecutor, here we come, right?
If I win, were going to appoint a special prosecutor because we cannot allow this to happen to our country. We cant. Were like a third world nation.
Hillary had no defense for her contract and didnt even try to defend the ridiculous  that these were 30,000 e-mails about yoga and wedding planning.
Lets see. You have 30,000 -- 33,000 e-mails deleted, right? I would bet she had three for yoga and maybe five for the wedding, right? What about the rest?
She had no defense when I brought up her failures in Iraq, Syria and Libya. She had no defense when I brought up her failures as a senator from New York promising to create the 200,000 jobs for upstate New York. But instead, the jobs were shipped to Mexico and other countries.
She had no defense for calling on millions of Americans and then saying that they were deplorable -- thats you, deplorable. Thats me, its all of us. And you know whats worse? Irredeemable. I dont know, which is worse? Would you rather be deplorable? Irredeemable means you have no chance, right? Were deplorable and irredeemable. I dont think so.
I think we have the greatest people on Earth. The smartest people.
We have the smartest. We have the most loyal people. Thats one thing every poll points out that, boy, Trumps people, its like the most loyal ever.
And one thing I know, were going to get out and vote and were going to be voting. And you remember the primaries. Donald Trump is behind, voting begins tomorrow, should be very interesting, but it looks like Mr. Trump will not be able to win this state, but hes put up a good fight. Next day, Donald Trump wins by 22 points. Everyone...
Crazy deal. Mr. Brexit, Mr. Brexit. Remember I said Brexits going to happen because I have a lot of property over there. Brexits going to happen. They all laughed. They said Donald Trump said that Brexits going to happen. Isnt he ridiculous? Anyway, three days later, they vote, Brexit happens. They never say anything. They never said anything.
But thats all right. This is like Brexit, folks. You watch. We want our independence back. We want our borders strong. We dont want people coming in from Syria that we have no idea who the hell they are.
As I said last night -- and I mean this -- shes got hatred in her heart. She wants to divide America. I want to bring us together as one people.
And by the way, we have thousands and thousands of people outside. You know, that, right? Do you know how lucky you are? Do you know how lucky you are?
And I guess theyre not allowing them in. I dont know why because theres thousands of people. Where is the fire marshal? Let some more people come in, I see some seats over there. Let some people -- fire marshal, we need your help.
Wheres our fire marshal? Let them come in. Weve got 3,000 or 4,000 people standing out there. See, I guess they figure you folks are taking the seats in the very back. We ought to let some more people come in.
I always get a kick -- I mean, I know a lot about fire and fire marshals, but you have a room with four walls and a roof and nothing to burn. Let the people in.
Hillary also had no defense for Obamacare, which is a total disaster. Im going to repeal and replace your disastrous Obamacare. Much cheaper, much better.
Hillary had no defense for her secret speeches to Wall Street and international banks that she hid from the public and which were exposed by Wikileaks. And by the way, just as Im walking on the stage, Mayor Giuliani said youre not going to believe this, look at this, we have all of these new charges. You see it just came down today. Wikileaks, some new stuff, some brutal stuff. I mean, Id read it to you, but to hell with it, just trust me. Its real bad stuff.
The speech transcripts contain scandalous revelations about Hillary Clinton that disqualify her from seeking public office.
And she is. Shes disqualified just on the fact that she did that with her e-mails. Think of it; deleting 33,000 -- think of it. How can you do it? These transcripts also shine a spotlight on how this corrupt establishment works, where politicians meet in secret with the big banks, collect massive sums of money, then betray the American worker, which is you and me and sort of all of us, were all workers. Were all working, we just work differently.
You know, I tell this to people. We have people in this room right now that made more money 18 years ago than theyre making now. They work a lot harder right now than they did 18 years ago. Their job was better 18 years ago and theyre older. And the only thing I say is Im older also, and Ive never worked this hard either, folks, I will tell you. Thats for sure.
My campaign is powered by my money and also small donations from millions of visitors to our website who just want their country back. They want America back.
Last night, I asked Hillary Clinton why she doesnt take some of the hundreds of millions of dollars that she made -- so Ill over $100 million into the campaign of my money. Is that smart or is that stupid?
Smart!
Take some of the money she made selling favors to special interest and invest them in her campaign, instead of having to rely on even more corporate donations.
She looked like, oh my god, why did he bring this up? She had no answer. She was flabbergasted, I can tell you. In the secret speeches released by WikiLeaks, this is yesterday and the day before, Hillary -- not as good as today, buy the way -- Hillary Clinton -- but I say that because the press will try not to pick them up because they try and protect her.
Ill tell you what, the only thing shes got going in the media. Without the media, she would not have a chance.
Hillary Clinton told her Wall Street donors that you need to have a public position and a private position. In other words, you need to be dishonest to run for office. In other words, have one for the public and one for the people that are giving you the money. Right? And that is very much right in that whole thing. I mean, its crazy.
How did Hillary Clinton try to defend this shocking admission? She did not deny -- she said this awful thing. Instead she blamed honest Abe Incon. Honest Abe!
So Hillary Clinton for lying, blamed Abe Lincoln, commonly known as honest Abe. Hes spinning in his grave. The speeches also show that crooked Hillary supports cutting Medicare and Social Security benefits, one more example of how Hillary Clintons public position is a lie.
She wants to knock the hell out of your Social Security, she wants to knock the hell out of your Medicare/Medicaid. And Im going to save them, OK? This is a little reversal for the Democrat/Republican, but I am going to save them because were going to make -- were going to make our country rich again. Were going to bring back our jobs. Were going to make good trade deals.
Were going to have countries that we are defending all over the world pay a little bit more money, if that is OK.
Which, in all fairness, until I came along, you never even heard about that. Right? And then when I say that they say, oh, Trump does not want to defend Japan. No, Id love to defend, but let them pay a little more money, right, isnt that good?
Were dying, were going to have $20 trillion in debt, $20 trillion. So some of these countries that we do such a good job for, where we defend them -- and we love doing it, but they got to help us out a little bit. Right?
Most shockingly, these speeches show Hillary Clinton saying, quote, my dream is a hemispheric common marketwith open trade -- you know what that does to your community? Thats the end. And open borders!
In other words, she wants the United States to surrender to global governance with no controls over trade or immigration. Great. Can you imagine? Seriously. Can you imagine?
Shes saying shes for NAFTA, which she was. You know, her husband signed NAFTA. But shes also for Trans-Pacific Partnership
By the way, NAFTA is the worst trade deal ever made in the history -- not of this country, but of the world. What its done to Pennsylvania and Ohio and update New York and New England. Poor New England, what its done to New England.
So shes for radical, unlimited immigration. In other words, people are going to pour in, but thats what shes for. Im building a wall and shes for, like, come on across. Slight difference.
A slight difference. Were going to build a wall. Who is going to pay for the wall?
Mexico!
By the way, they may not know it yet, but I think theyre getting the idea. But when you think of it, she wants to have people pour across. Now, the border patrol agents, 16,500, endorsed me recently. And last week...
Never endorsed a presidential candidate before in long history. And last week, ICE endorsed. ICE is -- these are great people. These are people that want to do their jobs, but theyre told to stand back, dont do your job. These are great people. You know, itd be a lot easier for them if they didnt endorse me because they could just take it nice and easy. But they want -- so, we got ICE, we have the border patrol agents, we have Sheriff Joe from Arizona. We love Sheriff...
And Hillary Clintons got nothing. So she wants people to pour across the borders. She wants thousands and thousands of people to come in from Syria. I mean, 550 percent more than our President Obama.
A Trump administration will completely renegotiate NAFTA or we will walk away and make a brand-new deal thats far better where actually businesses start coming to Pennsylvania and to Ohio.
Unbelievable. And we will stop the disastrous Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing could be as bad. But well stop it. And well make deals. But this is a complex deal with many countries. You have to see the arrows all over the place. Once you sign it, its 5,000 pages, more than that long. Once you sign it, its a mess.
I like free trade. We make one deal, two deals, three -- we make it with individual countries, and if they dont behave, we terminate them. We send them whats called a notification of termination.
But that will never happen because during that 30-day period, well renegotiate a better deal for our country, OK? And you the other way, you cant terminate. Theres too many -- its -- people go crazy. You have to be like a grand chessmaster, and we dont have any of them.
Hillary Clintons radical call for open borders, meaning anyone in the world can enter the United States without any limit at all, would end the United States as we know it today.
No one who supports open borders should be able to run for president because we wont have a country.
And by the way, weeks ago, I called out Hillary Clinton for supporting open borders and the media said I was wrong. Now, Ive been proven right. Where is the media rushing to correct these false stories? Because in the Wikileaks, it was all about open borders, free trade for everybody. See, I like free trade, but we want smart trade. Its got to be -- it shouldnt even be called free trade, it should be called smart trade. I dont like the term free trade.
Because free trade, to have it really work, you need really, really smart people negotiating your details. And all these other countries have smart people. For them, its important. For us, we have people, they dont know what theyre doing.
No less than Bernie Sanders declared that open borders would be the end of America. Bernie Sanders said open borders means there would be no United States, doing away with the concept of nation-state. Sanders also explained how open borders would make everybody in America poorer by radically reducing wages. Maybe thats OK with him. Not OK with me.
By the way, how many ways can Hillary Clinton betray Bernie Sanders? She really has betrayed him. I mean, look, even if we dont agree with him, I mean -- you know, Bernie Sanders would have been a legend. He would have gone down as a legendary figure in history if he didnt make the deal with the devil. But he made the deal with her and now hes just another guy.
She attacked his supporters as basement dwellers, she admitted in secret shes in favor of entitlement cuts and shes for open borders and open trade. Your state has lost one in three manufacturing jobs. Since Bill and Hillary Clintons NAFTA and China deals happened.
Im going to stop foreign cheating, the product dumping, which by the way, is killing your steel industry, and in this case has already killed much of your steel industry. How many people agree with me that China -- because this is such a big steel area, or was -- were gonna bring it back, dont worry about it.
But how many people agree with me that China had so much to do and stupid politicians with the killing of the steel industry in the state of Pennsylvania?
Between that and currency manipulation, which they do like grand masters and we do like were playing bad games of checkers, were going to start making things in America again. And were going to start making things in Pennsylvania again. Dont let them tell you youre doing well because youre doing lousy.
Pennsylvania steel will build our future and Pennsylvania energy -- our miners, were bringing our miners back -- will power our future.
Congressman, get up there, will you? Do we know our Congressman? Look at this guy. I tell you, they say he was a hell of a football player. They say he was -- I dont know if hed be so good today. Would you be good today? I dont know. But he has been such an incredible supporter, and so great, and hes standing next to my daughter Tiffany who came today.
Thank you, Congressman. Thank you.
We have such great support in these areas. That includes, though, clean coal, shale oil and natural gas we have to protect. Pennsylvania workers will be hired to do the job. Hillary Clinton would rather give your jobs to people that pour into the country illegally. I explained how she favors a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming into our land. We have nothing -- we know nothing about them.
And by the way, we all have hearts. We know whats going on. Its horrible. When you look at Syria, when you look at the migration. Well build safe zones and well get others to pay, like the Gulf states. They have nothing but money and theyre not putting up their fair share. They have nothing but money. Theyll pay. And well lead it, but theyll pay.
I also exposed how Hillary Clinton is personally responsible for the release of thousands of dangerous criminal aliens into the United States. As secretary of State, Hillary Clinton refused to make foreign countries take back their own criminal aliens by canceling visas, a duty vested in her by the law. And I must tell you, she refused to use forceful diplomatic action.
So well have a killer, and hell be from another country, lets say someplace in South America, and well catch him because our ICE people are great and our border patrol people are amazing, so well catch him. And what happens is well want to bring him back to whatever country that person comes from.
This could be a killer, a drug dealer, somebody else, a gang member, the head of a gang. Hillary Clinton would say, We cant force him back into that country." The hell we cant. ""his could be a killer
I guarantee you that under my administration, there will not be one bad guy that is not forced back into his country. Not one. There wont be any. You wont be reading about it. We will put such pressure on those countries to take these people back.
But Hillary Clinton did say -- Im sorry Madam Secretary, if you can believe this. This was prior to her naps. Im sorry, Madam Secretary. But they wont take this killer back. Oh
The Remembrance Project. You know what that is, right? The Remembrance -- these are the most incredible mothers and fathers and sisters and brothers who have lost their loved ones to killers, to killers, illegal immigrants that killed their loved ones. And its a sad thing to see, that I can tell you.
Her refusal to take such diplomatic action has caused the release of thousands of criminals into our community. One foreign national and convicted killer who should have been sent back to his home country in 2012 was instead set free by Clintons watch. Six months after his release, he killed again, murdering a 25-year old beautiful Casey Chadwick. You probably heard about it.
In just one single year of Hillary Clintons tenure, 2010, nearly 4,000 convicted criminal aliens were released into American communities because their home countries just said, No
Another revelation from those secret speeches is that Hillary Clinton knew that the State Department and their devices were under threat of hacking, and yet she traveled overseas with her totally insecure telephone. Remember the ones that she banged the hell out of when she wanted to get get rid of...
No I wasnt trying to . Who banged their phones. When you throw your cell phones, does anybody bang them with a hammer? This is still more evidence that she lied to the FBI, just like she lied to Congress. And she lied to us.
One more very important issue where I exposed the hypocrisy of Hillary Clinton, and the media, was on Hillary Clintons treatment of women. I was getting beaten up for 72 hours on all the networks for inappropriate words 12 years ago. Locker room talk, whatever you want to call it. But I said to myself, wait a minute. And I just saw a very inappropriate words, but Bill Clinton sexually assaulted innocent women and Hillary Clinton attacked those women viciously.
One of them said more viciously than he attacked them. If they want to release more tapes saying inappropriate things, well continue to talk about Bill and Hillary Clinton doing inappropriate things. There are so many of them, folks. You probably saw yesterday we brought four wonderful women to St. Louis.
And honestly, it was both very beautiful and very sad. They really -- theyve been trying to get their feelings out for so long and the media wouldnt take it. One thing with me, the media takes it. Whatever. So they were able to get what they wanted to get out.
To quote Juanita Broaddrick, Hillary Clinton threatened me after Bill Clinton raped me." Shes been struggling to get the media to pay attention to her for many
As I outlined last night, Bill Clinton was the worst abuser of women ever to sit in the Oval Office. He was a predator. Hillary Clinton systematically attacked and discredited the victims of Bill Clintons sexual harassment and assault. These things arent written by the media, but theyre true. Written by many books.
These victims include names like Kathleen Willey, Juanita Broaddrick, Paula Jones, Connie Hamzy, Eileen Wellstone, Sandra Allen James and Cristy Zercher. And there are many, many more. For decades, Hillary Clinton has been deeply familiar with her husbands predatory behavior, and instead of trying to stop it, she made it possible for him to take advantage of even more women. She put even more women in harms way and then she goes out and says, I love women. Im going to help women. Im gonna help women." Shes a total hypocrite.""hese victims include names like Kathleen Willey
The hypocrisy of the media and our politicians is hard to believe. They condemn my words, but they ignore and defend the -- and this is the way it is -- the reprehensible actions of Hillary and Bill Clinton that have destroyed and hurt so many lives.
But perhaps the greatest window into the character of Hillary Clinton can be found in what she did as a lawyer when she was defending a man who raped a 12-year-old little girl.
Desperate to win her case, Hillary Clinton blamed the 12-year-old victim. Her name was Kathleen Shelton. She was with us yesterday. She was right sitting front row at the debate. As the lawyer for the rapist, Hillary Clinton said the little girl was emotionally unstable and had a quote, tendency to seek out older men and engage in fantasizing."""esperate to win her case
This is -- Hillary ruined that little girls life, destroyed her life, then years later she was recorded laughing about it on videotape. She was laughing at the girl. Theres nothing Hillary Clinton wont do or say to obtain power, and its about time people started to understand that.
But the hypocrites in the media dont want to talk about what Hillary Clinton has done to these victims. They dont want to talk about what their other political heroes have done to other innocent girls and women. People like Kennedy, Chappaquiddick. We remember that. Driving his car into a pond instead of calling the police, possibly saving her life. In fact, almost definitely being able to save her life. He went home and went to sleep. Did not report the incident to the police for 10 hours, yet he was hailed as a hero.
The last 72 hours has framed what this election is all about. Its about the American people fighting back against corrupt politicians who dont care about anything except staying in power and keeping their donors happy.
What I want to say to every American right now is that I accept the mantle of this responsibility for all of us, for all of us.
We have an absolute incredible situation taking place, folks. And I will never stop fighting for you against the Washington establishment that has betrayed each and every one of you, betrayed the country. Our government has lost its virtue. Right now, its just about protecting the powerful, and you know what I mean. And I know it better than anybody else. And Im doing this because I just think its so damn unfair.
And its ultimately going to lead to the destruction of our country. And were doing it. The Clintons have corrupted our government at the very highest levels. Rank and file -- incredible people by the way, incredible people -- rank and file FBI agents are shocked at the corruption that theyre witnessing at levels of the FBI that nobody would have thought it was possible.
The Department of Justice, where Bill Clinton gets into the back of an airplane for 39 minutes just prior to a determination being made. Of course, you and I know the determination was made a long time ago. But gets on with the attorney general because he happened to be in Arizona playing gold. It was 110 degrees out, right? Nobody saw him on the golf course. Just happened to be there. Oh, theres the attorney general. Let me get back on the plane.
So they spend 39 minutes in the back of the plane. They talked about two things; golf and grandchildren. Thirty-nine minutes. So I give the grandchildren five minutes, I give the golf three minutes, right? What else do you think might have been talked about? They cant believe, these FBI people, these people for life in the FBI -- these are people that are unbelievable people. They love this country so much. And theyre seeing things that theyve never seen before where guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, no charge, no problem.
They see all of this stuff going on and these people much be sick to their stomachs. What have we seen in the e-mail scandal? What have we seen in third-world-level corruption? This is really what it is. Its third-world -- were like in a third-world country right now. And this November is our one chance, November 8th, our one chance to save our country. Its the last chance were going to have, folks.
Ive traveled around this country talking about change. But my travels, the places Ive been, the people Ive met, theyve also changed me. Im not proud of everything that Ive done in life. I mean, who among us is? Is anybody totally proud of every single element? Some we are. But let me tell you what Im very proud of. Im proud that Ive always treated the blue collar worker -- and I consider myself in a certain way to be a blue collar worker -- that make this country run with tremendous respect.
The waiters and waitresses, the cops and firefighters, the receptionist and the custodians, we treat them with dignity and respect. These are great people. These are great people.
And our police and law enforcement officials, we have to be thankful for them because they have done an amazing job.
Im proud of the tens of thousands of jobs that Ive created and Im proud that I provide equal play and equal pay for equal work. And I have to do that, I have to do that. Ive promoted women to the highest positions in my companies over the years and they have done an incredible job.
Im proud of our unbelievable movement, because thats what we have is a movement. Men and women who only want a better future for their children. Thats what they want, thats what we want.
I know that if my father and my mother were alive today, they would be very, very proud of me and theyd be proud of everybody in this room and all of the other stadiums and all of the other rooms that were in. We have the greatest people in the world. The greatest people. And we are going to make America great again. And its going to happen fast too, I can tell you.
My parents knew what was in my heart. They would know the love that I have for all the hardworking people in this country and the love that I have for my country itself. Im glad that I have the chance today to open my heart to all of you and tell you how much I want to make our country so much better, so much stronger, so much safer, so much wealthier. We have to do all of those things.
A woman came up to me and said, Mr. Trump, please, sir, leave out wealthy; it doesnt sound good. I said, can I use rich instead? Rich. No, no, that doesnt sound good. I said, heres the problem, countries all over the world are ripping off the United States. Theyre taking our wealth, theyre taking our jobs, theyre taking our future. We have no choice.
We want to save our Social Security and our Medicare and our Medicaid. We want to save our wealth. We want to keep our taxes as low as possible. Right now, theyre far too high. Our taxes are going to be cut massively by me, if I get in. And Hillarys going to raise taxes.
Our regulations, which are killing our companies, are going to be cut massively by me. And Ill tell you what. You look at your energy companies, your natural gas, your coal companies, your steel companies, they cant do business, they cant compete with the rest of the world because the regulations are so horrible and so massive.
So were going to cut taxes. Hillarys going to raise taxes. Were going to cut taxes big league for the middle class, big league for business. Were going to grow again. Companies arent going to be leaving our shores. Theyre not going to be leaving us for Mexico and other places. Were going to have companies coming back and new companies being formed. Its going to happen very quickly.
My whole life Ive been a fighter, and now Im going to fight for you. Were going to fight.
Were going to bring back our military. You know, our military needs enhancement. Its so depleted. Were going to fight for our veterans who are being horribly mistreated, not taken care of properly. In many cases, illegal immigrants are being taken care of much better than our veterans.
Were going to fight for our Second Amendment, which is under siege.
Were going to take care of that one easily. Were going to fight to have Supreme Court justices that believe in our Constitution appointed to the Supreme Court.
Were going to fight for all of our businesses, but were going to fight for the steel businesses that have been taken away from us. Were going to fight from those -- for those miners whose jobs have been .
You know, when I was in West Virginia, I met incredible people and a lot of miners. And I said to them, did you ever think of maybe moving to another area and going into another profession?
Hell no!
They said, Mr. Trump -- just like she goes, hell no.
But just like -- its just like that. They say, Mr. Trump, we love being miners, we love mining. Our grandparents did it, our great parents -- grandparents did it, our fathers. We love mining. And I realized the love that they had for mining.
And as you remember, weeks before Hillary Clinton made a statement someplace else before going to West Virginia and trying to get their vote, if you can believe this, she said we are going to close the mines and were going to put the miners out of work. Then she went to West Virginia and she tried to convince them, well, she didnt mean it. Let me tell you, folks, were going to take care of our mines, were going to take care of our miners. Were going to have clean coal, clean coal, were going to have them. But were going to bring back our .
And were going to protect a great new resource, something that really over the last fairly short period of time, from an energy standpoint, has become so important, and something so important to this area; natural gas. So we are going to keep our people working and were going to have a lot more people working.
We are going to get rid of Obamacare. We are going to get rid of Common Core. Were going to bring our education local.
We are going to make great and lasting trade deals, not the horrible trade deals. This year on trade, we will have almost an $800 billion trade deficit. Think of it. Who negotiates these deals? Whos negotiating? In other words, countrywide. With China, were going to lose almost $500 billion.
But think of this, countrywide we do all this work. Were going to have a trade deficit of $800 almost billion. Its not going to happen anymore, folks. Its not going to happen anymore.
Were going to trade -- were going to trade, but I say were going to now have a two-lane. You now, we have a one -- we have a one-lane superhighway going into Mexico, right? You know that. Hello.
Hi!
We have a one-lane highway going into Mexico. Were going to make it maybe for a little while, to get some of it back, a one-lane highway coming back. But ultimately, its going to be like this. We want to be fair.
Were going to bring Pennsylvania steel and manufacturing back. Were going to unleash trillions in new energy, and were going to put our miners back to work. Were going to protect our hunters and save our Second Amendment.
Hillary Clinton wants to do big, big damage, big, big damage to the Second Amendment.
Were going to fix your schools and your inner cities and reduce crime and poverty and joblessness. And were going to liberate millions of African-Americans and Hispanic Americans from poverty. What theyre going through is unbelievable.
Were going to make Pennsylvania and Ohio, and so many other places within our country, the manufacturing hub of the world once again. Were going to be able to do it. Its going to be not even hard to do.
But to do these things, we must push aside the politicians and the special interests who have betrayed us. Theyve betrayed us. So this year, we have an election coming up on November 8th. So important that you get out and vote. So important that you watch other communities, because we dont want this election stolen from us. We dont want this election stolen from us.
We do not want this election stolen. We have a movement like theyve never seen before. Bill OReilly and others have said this is the single greatest phenomena theyve ever seen. We have a movement like no other. Were going to make that movement incredible. And what were going to end up with is this: a country thats not divided, a country that loves itself and loves its people.
Were going to make a country where people are proud to come in, people are proud to come through the borders, people want to come through because they respect us and they respect our values. We are going to make a country thats wealthy again. Were going to make a country thats safe again. Were going to make a country that know what its doing and -- and functions on common sense again -- functions on common sense.
Our future is in our hands. On November 8th, youre going to look back and youre going to say I believe, years from now, that was the most important day and the most important vote that you have ever cast because were going to turn our country around, were going to take back our country, were going to take back the White House.
We are going to work so hard and we are going to make America great again.
