Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Miami, FL|August 11, 2016
Thank you, wow. Thank you everybody. Well, we broke a record, you broke your all time records with attendance. So I know its not because of me, but a lot of people came that normally dont come. And Im very happy about that because home building is very close to my heart.
Thats where I grew up, my father built homes in Brooklyn and Queens and thats how he started and he worked very hard building garages. He started of building garages because the car was sort of coming into vogue and people had houses but they didnt have any place to store their car.
And he worked very hard and he put my uncle through school, MIT. My uncle went to MIT, my father worked very, very hard.
Then my uncle went to graduate school, then he became a doctor of this and he went to MIT and my father kept working. He said, does this guy ever finish school?" ""hen my uncle went to graduate school
Then he became a professor at MIT and my father said, finally
See the bigger companies dont do this but the individual guys that do the one or two or eight or 10 houses a year and we have all -- everybodys represented. But my father would go and hed pick up the sawdust and hed pick up the nails, the extra nails and hes pick up the scraps of wood.
Hed use whatever he could use and recycle it in some form or sell it and it was a constant process. And he did a beautiful job. And he would build a house and in the old days, the really old days, it was $39,999.
And I used to say to him because Ive seen the old ads, Id say dad, why -- whats -- its one penny." He says heres the difference
You tell me but -- Ive always remembered that story but it was -- it was true. And he did great and people across the street would build and it would take them longer and their house wouldnt look as good. And it wouldnt be as well-built as my fathers houses.
And hed sell and they wouldnt and then hes go buy them out. And then fix up the house and he said welcome to being a home builder, right?
That wasnt part of the speech.
That wasnt going to be part of the speech, I dont know why I just sort of -- -wheeled that and I said you know, because Im so comfortable. I mean honestly, Im so comfortable in this business and he taught me so much.
I mean more than anything else, hed taught me so much. And weve built great buildings all over the world, were building a great one now in Washington, D.C., its almost completed. And its about a year ahead of schedule, more than a year ahead of schedule.
And its under budget and yet were -- the quality is way higher than we ever thought wed do. Its going to be one of the great hotels of the world. And you learn it right from the ground up.
And you learn it from home building, if you can build a home you can build anything. Because you have sort of every single trade, I always used to say we have essentially 38 trades if you add them all up.
And you better know everyone of them and you better get your right subs and if you dont have the right subs you got yourself a problem. And thats what happens.
And over the years you get familiar with people but then the problem is the subs get so familiar that they start giving you high prices because they know youll never use anybody but them, right? Right?
And then every once in a while we have to give it to somebody else to get their price -- oh, do I know you people well.
Do I know you well. But youre great people and you employ millions of people. I would say -- Ive always said the housing business is really the housing and homebuilding businesses, the biggest business in the United States when you add it all up.
Its got to be the biggest business in the United States for jobs and everything else. And I know what youre going through. And one of the big things -- I mean tax is definitely -- but the regulations are horrible, whats happening with regulations, horrible.
And so were going to be talking about -- we have a few people here and they may be backstage. But Rick Scott is fantastic, great governor, great governor. And Pam Bondi is here, Pam is here
Your Attorney General, just as a fantastic person. A fantastic person who works so hard. And I dont know if shes in the room or if shes in the back, but were wherever she is, she is a spectacular person doing a great job.
And Mike Huckabee is here. Governor Mike Huckabee, and hes in the room actually, back in the corner I believe.
I want to thank him for being here. Were doing a little travel today around Florida. Were about even in the polls in Florida. And boy, the polls are really tightening up.
Theyre getting a little bit nervous with their hundreds of millions of dollars that theyre spending on ads. Clinton is getting a little nervous. Crooked Hilary, shes getting a little bit concerned.
Hundreds of dollers -- theyve spent -- theyre spending hundreds of millions of dollars. A friend of mine from North Carolina said, Don
But mostly, honestly, mostly not true. Its made up stuff. And he said,its unbelievable". He said
Thats how - so shes spending hundreds of million of dollars on ads, hundreds of millions and a new poll just came out this morning that has us essentially very close to even. And I havent spent anything.
In fact, I have ads, whatever the number is that shes got, just hundreds and they have Trump -- zero. I said thats OK. Thats OK. We sit back and wait. We sit back and wait.
Were doing - I think were doing really very well, maybe better than anyone fully understands because we have a movement going on. Just like theres more people than have ever come to this event, and this is a big event, and this has been going on for a long time. Ive actually come to this event many, many years ago. Just like you set the record here, we set the record everywhere we go -- in terms of attendance, in terms of enthusiasm.
Last night was unbelievable, we had an event, unbelievable. But this great enthusiasm because they want to see lower taxes, they want to see less regulations, they want to see a built up military - our military is totally depleted. They want to see borders, we have a country or we dont have a country. They want to see jobs, they dont want to see our jobs leaving the United States and going to Mexico and every place else.
And, and I just see the sign, housing equals jobs"
And you know we talk about different things with - Ill go off the housing subject for a second. But we talk about different things and whats going on with our government. Our government isnt giving us good protection, our government has unleashed ISIS.
I call President Obama and Hilary Clinton the founders of ISIS, theyre the founders. In fact, I think well give Hilary Clinton the - you know if youre on a sports team, most valuable player, MVP, you get the MVP award - ISIS will hand her the most valuable player award. Her only competition is Barack Obama, between the two of them.
So well see. But I think were going to do, I think were going to do very well. We have a situation that -- I was just with some of you folks, and we were talking about different elements of whats going on with the housing, and they would tell me the regulation. In fact, I noticed when I mentioned regulation before everybody perked up because youre driven wild with regulation.
But in the last five years, regulations on building houses -- building homes, you know, building homes, and you all know what youre doing -- have increased by 29%. And now, a number I was just given which is shocking, you have a 25% of your total cost is in regulation. I dont understand how that is possible. In fact, where is your leader? He told me that number.
You wouldnt even think that, that is a possible number. 25 percent of the cost is to regulations. So thats a pretty sad story.
And I will say this, and I say this to you very strongly, if short circuit Hillary Clinton ever gets elected, its only going to be worse. It is going to get worse. Its going to be four more years of Obama but it will be worse because shes mandated to go to the left, because 45 percent of Bernies people -- they want her to head in that direction.
And with judges -- Supreme Court judges -- you know, a lot of the problems that you have are judicial with litigation lawsuits. I know the problems that you have -- you will build a beautiful house and sometimes you make mistakes OK? And sometimes you build a lousy house OK, and they should sue you.
But I know the people, many of the people in this room, youre professionals. You build great products, you have a tremendous problem with the court system. Ive heard actually, its a really big problem with the court system. So we are going to make sure that you know -- we are going to make sure that a lot of the things that are happening to you, just cant happen.
We want it to be a fair system. You have a lot of frivolous lawsuits -- has anybody in this room have what they call a frivolous lawsuit? I would think -- thats all? Theres not that many. Seriously? OK, theyre just embarrassed to raise their hands, OK. Ill bet you its every single person in the room.
But very interestingly, a Washington Post story that was written yesterday that was so devastating to Hillary Clinton, primarily because it was in the Washington Post. And when she was a Senator -- because believe me they are a one sided deal -- but the press is extremely dishonest, so thats OK.
The people are starting to really get it. I mean, the people understand it. They are smart.
The American voter -- the American people are smart, they understand whats going on with the horror that we know as the press. I mean, we have one newspaper that actually admitted that theyre covering me unfairly. But they said, we hate him so much
Can you believe that? A major paper. But I knew that before. So you know, I was reading the story -- Im like bored reading the story.
But the Washington Post did a story -- the Washington Post did a story on Hillary Clinton two days ago that was so devastating in terms of -- if youre looking for like what you folks want. You want efficiency, you want jobs, we want jobs, the country wants jobs.
When she was person running for the United States Senate from New York, she said things that were so unbelievable, she was going to take because her husband signed NAFTA. And NAFTA destroyed upstate New York, it destroyed it.
Our factories closed, our jobs fled, many to Mexico, which is the third world -- I mean, when you look at Mexico -- its third world now, when you look at the factories that theyre building there. I dont know -- has anyone seen whats going on in Mexico? They are taking our businesses, they are taking our plants.
A friend of mine builds plants, he said, its the eighth wonder of the world of whats going on in Mexico." How are we doing in the United States? Not so good. OK. Not so good. What a sad sad state of affairs."" friend of mine builds plants
Well, NAFTA made that all possible. And it was signed by her husband. But shes running for the Senate -- years ago -- and she said that shes going to straighten out upstate New York, and shes going to hit 200,000 jobs, its going to be unbelievable. Its a disaster, a disaster.
She passed no legislation that helped, couldnt get out her own way, it went down like youve never seen, one of the worst in the country. And its been a total unmitigated disaster, except for the people that made money trying to work out her plans, they made a fortune, the consultants and others.
And shell make a speech today and shell be talking about what shes going to do for the country, she dont -- she doesnt have the talent to do it. And if she wanted to do it, just remember this -- and I think very importantly -- if she wanted to do it she couldnt because her donors wouldnt let her.
You know, when we look at Hillary -- and we look -- you look at her donors, her hedge fund donors -- I had a chart made up yesterday which was amazing. Shes taken in $48 million from hedge funds, Ive taken in $16,000 -- Im trying to figure out who the $16,000 is from.
But these are people that -- I mean these are people that are very smart people, theyre not necessarily nice people -- I know half of them. But these are people that you know, when they give her $5 million, and $2 million, and $10 million or whatever they give, and they raise all that money, theyre working for them -- they want that for them, theyre not looking for the country.
So by my putting up money from my campaign, I financed my primaries, Im financing now this -- Im raising a lot of money for the RNC and for the Republican Party, and were getting tremendous small contributions, thousands, and thousands of small contributions, $61 average or there about.
And its amazing weve taken in a lot of money and I think very few Republicans would be able to do that but, you have to take a look at this washing Post story because its amazing. But I wrote down some notes and I just wanted to talk about the policies of Obama, and Clinton, and where we are, and what theyve done, and the last thing you want is four more years of Obama.
The last thing you want are judges put on the United States Supreme Court that are going to destroy our nation. We lost Judge Scalia, who was a great justice -- was a great judge. We lost him -- that was shocking because he was going to be there at least another ten years and that seat was taken. But all of a sudden, before we even start -- so this president actually could have as many as five -- its unlikely five -- but probably four, almost definitely three -- thats a lot -- but it could be an all time record, could have five.
So thats probably the single most, or one of the -- certainly one of the very big -- I mean defense I always say is the most -- we have to be safe. We cant let ISIS come in, we cant let the Syrians pour into our country like they are right now, we have no idea who they are, where theyre combing from, we have no idea what their thought process is, we just dont know.
And theres no way you can vet them, but theyre pouring in and Hillary wants 500 and 50 percent more to come in than what we have right now, which is just insane. So we have to be smart, we have to be tough, and we have to be vigilant and I will say that President Obama and Clinton have economic policies that have produced -- you saw the latest report -- 1.2 percent growth, right, 1.2 percent.
If that ever happened in China theyd have a revolution. They get to seven percent, or eight percent and they start devaluing their currency and they start taking more business out of the United States. And we allow it to happen because we have people at the top that are not smart, number one and are probably controlled by people that want it to happen.
But then thats smart people, so China starts devaluing -- and I have nothing against China, I like China, I -- I have polices with China. The biggest bank in the world is a tenant of mine, one of my buildings in New York.
I sell condos to the Chinese, the Bank of America building in San Francisco, I own that with a great partner. And I got that through China, indirectly and directly.
So Ive had great relations -- Ive made a fortune with China. But they dont respect us. They dont respect our country, they dont respect our president. They dont like our president.
Putin doesnt like our president. Putin has no respect for Obama whatsoever. Wouldnt it be nice if we could actually get along with Russia, wouldnt that be a decent thing? Wouldnt that be nice?
So -- but theres no respect. But the 1.2 growth percent was a startling number for a lot of people. The national debt has nearly doubled under Obama. And by the time he gets out itll be more than double.
The U.S. trade deficit, all of this work we do for trade, trade, trade, we make all bad trade deals. Its nearly $800 billion last year, $800 billion, billion, billion dollars. With a B, $800 billion, we have re-negotiated.
If I used home-builders to negotiate, that wouldnt be happening. Believe me.
I could take 90 percent of the people in this room, maybe higher. But I can take -- because I know the people in this room. I could take 90 percent of the people in this room, put them in charge of some of these trade deals that we make with these different countries.
And our country would be flush. Wed be rolling in dough. But we had a trade deficit of $800 billion. We had a trade deficit with China, this is the big one, of $505 billion.
Think of a trade deficit, does anybody think they couldnt do a better deal? Raise your hand if you think you couldnt do the better deal. Does anybody?
Oh, he raised his hand, he has the guts.
Get outta here, we dont want you.
Hes not a true home builder.
That was very cute, thank you, Im sure you dont believe that but thats OK. You do play -- your businesses must be suffering, right?
Nearly 24 million Americans in their prime earning years are out of the labor force. In the last seven years, another 14 million people have left the workforce. And Hillary Clintons going to make a speech tonight.
Shes going to raise taxes, $1.3 trillion, Im going to cut taxes big league, big league. Were having a massive cut in taxes. Were having a massive cut in regulations. You know...
And that includes banking regulations, thats for you people because its impossible for you people to go get mortgages. So hard for people to get mortgages today.
Unless you have a lot of money in the bank and unless you dont need money, you cant borrow, right? You cant borrow.
I have friends that call me, could you give me a reference to a bank? I say why would you need a reference, you got a good business. They said, no
I say well, if you had that you wouldnt have to borrow, right? So why -- its impossible. With Dodd-Frank, with all of the different things that you have and I know people that cant get mortgages to buy houses.
And thats why your housing numbers are way down from what they were in terms of new capacity. One in five American households do not have a single member in the labor force, think of that.
Home ownership -- well, this is a biggie for you -- home ownership is at its lowest rate in 51 years. Now, think of that. You know, this is like the American dream, right? Owning a home was the American dream.
Its at the lowest rate in 51 years and I have a chart -- wheres that chart, ah-ha. Look at this, see Im into the world of charts, lately.
So heres a chart, most of you can see, you dont need very good eyesight to see whats going on. So heres Obama and heres the end.
Hes not finished yet.
Isnt that a terrible -- no seriously, isnt that a terrible picture? Look at that -- home ownership. So you take a look at whats happened. Thats the American dream right there folks.
And then they wonder why 25,000 people come to my rallies and why 10,000 people, and 10,000 and 5,000 more, we have a room that holds 200. And why -- I mean even your meeting. It was supposed to be one third this size and look at it.
But look at this, and to me that says so much because its home ownership, thats the American dream and its the lowest its been in 51 years, wow. So I think thats a pretty sad thing. I hope you know I had that chart not necessarily made for you but I figured it would be a good one to pull out, right.
Nearly 12 million people, more Americans, are dependent on food stamps and 2 million more Latino Americans live in poverty. Latino Americans, incredible people, theyre living in poverty, 2 million. 58 percent of African American youth are not employed, 58 percent.
American households are earning $4,000 less. See this is, to me, so incredible. American households are earning $4,000 less today than they were 16 years ago - the real number is 18 years ago. But this particular group says 16, statistically -- sixteen years ago.
Many workers are earning less money than they were earning in real dollars in 1970 and then you wonder why theyre angry, you wonder why they really want a voice. And the voice is us. I mean we have a movement going on, its been an amazing thing and the polls are getting very close, very, very close. Its very interesting whats happening.
We will create millions of new good paying jobs, were going to cross the board on income tax reduction. I mean this is one of the things that we have to do, we have to do. Were going to create millions of jobs.
Now, everybody admits, you know the five percent numbers just a number to make politicians look good, to make the presidents look good. Not only Obama, it was there before him although its gotten actually worse because more people -- the way they analyze these numbers -- more and more people -- that number gets lower and lower and the people cant find work.
You know if you give up looking for a job, after months, you go home. I cant find one
The good jobs we dont have anymore. Even the other side, we have jobs, we dont have good jobs. But you give up looking and yet you are considered statistically employed because the numbers a phony number, five percent. Every time I watch that, unemployment is down to five percent, its not down to five percent.
Its probably 20 or 21 percent. Some people think its higher, but people want jobs and they quit, they give up looking.
Everyones taxes we want to go down. Under my plan there are three brackets, Im going to have three brackets instead of seven. Were doing a major, major, major simplification.
The one company that will not be happy is H&R Block.
Oh, I know people that go and spend a fortune on tax returns because they cant -- its too complicated that they cant figure it out. Many Americans are going to pay nothing. Theyre going to pay zero because theyre not making enough to live.
But they dont want to send -- theyre not going to send a tax return, it costs a fortune bureaucratically. Billions of dollars. And they dont have money and theyre not going to pay. So were going to make that a little easier process.
Hillary Clinton has supported tax increases on the middle class for her entire career. Shes voted for higher taxes 235 times in the Senate. I thought it was more than that -- that doesnt sound -- think of it.
Shes raised -- shes voted for tax increases and by the way, shes proposing a big one today in her speech, her teleprompter speech. Shes got -- shes got...
Her speeches are so short, though. They dont last long, you know theyre like 10 minutes, lets get out of here. Go back home and go to sleep.
Three days later, she gets up and she does another one and goes back home and goes to sleep.
Oh boy, is ISIS hoping for her.
Is China hoping, can you imagine China? They come in, you ever negotiate with the Chinese? Theyre tough, theyre tough. You go to hit them back with a lot of energy. So now, shes planning another job-killing $1.3 trillion tax increase. Her plan -- $1.3 trillion tax think, her plan will tax many small businesses, you folks, by almost 50 percent. Enjoy your tax increase, folks.
Ive cut mine down to 15 percent, 15 percent for businesses.
So no small business in our plan will be taxed more than 15 percent. And will allow businesses to expense new business investments which is nice, right? Well make average child-care expense, taxed it up to both for working families, a very big thing. And a very fair thing. Were going to -- very fair thing.
That was Ivanka Trump. She thought that was good.
She really did, she felt very strong -- shes had three children, now. And she thought it was very unfair to working mothers and families what was happening. And I -- I agreed with it 100 percent, we will eliminate the carried interest deduction, end corporate inversions and other special interest loopholes.
And were going to repeal the death tax, via state tax, deduct taxes.
You know, I know so many families that have been destroyed by the death tax where they have a business and the business is going along and a business has a certain value. And they cant make a deal with the government and they end up losing their business.
Sometimes they cant even sell it, but they end up losing their businesses or they have to sell their business. And the people that come in dont run the business the same way and the business goes out of business.
Farmers are hit hard, housing companies are hit hard, I guess housing companies are hit very hard. Especially when you want to keep it going and you want your children to take over and keep running your business. And its a very, very unfair situation.
And the tax is massive and its -- and it doesnt amount to a lot of money for the country. Its not a huge amount of money, believe it or not. But it is just a destroyer of businesses.
The farmers are -- they dont know what to do about it. They dont know what to do -- they go out of business.
Over-regulation, which is a big problem is costing our economy $2 trillion a year. Think of that. And you are a big beneficiary of over-regulation, because there is nobody other than I would say, the energy industry thats over-regulated more than the home-building industry. Nobody.
We just want 25 percent, 25 percent of the cost of the house, I think we should get that down to about two percent. You know honestly - no no - honestly, its ridiculous.
The U.S. economy today is 25 percent smaller than it wouldve been without the surge of regulations since 1980. I think thats true. So many businesses are knocked out.
We will issue and Executive Order to impose a temporary regulation moratorium on new agency regulations.
Very much like Governor Mike Pence who is a terrific guy by the way. Mike Pence, what a good pick that was. Hes great.
He is great. Hes done such a job in Indiana, Triple A rating, low debt, low everything and low unemployment. When he took it over it was - well, they had a very good governor before him too, the combination was incredible.
Mike Pence has done an incredible job in Indiana. So Im really honored to have him with us. He has been amazing. And hes a big cutter of regulation, that I can tell you.
We will cancel all illegal and overreaching Executive Orders signed by President Obama.
We will eliminate all regulations that killed jobs. We will remove the bureaucrats who only know how to kill jobs, which is true, and replace them with experts who know how to create jobs without regulation. OK?
Our goal is to keep jobs and wealth in America. To keep them in America. We are not going to let them go to all of these countries that think we are the stupid people. They think we are the stupid people, we are not stupid, we have stupid leaders.
We cant take it anymore and thats why were doing this. That is why Im running because I got tired of watching an Iran Deal. I got tired of watching a Sergeant Bergdahl deal. We get Bergdahl, a traitor, they get five killers that theyve wanted for years.
I get tired of watching these horrendous trade deals. I get tired of paying for everybodys military and getting a fraction of what its costing us. You know, we pay for the military of many many countries, not only NATO countries but other countries, big ones.
Plenty of money and we get a fraction of what its costing us. And if asked properly, they will probably pay. And if they dont pay, congratulations.
But we cant do this, this isnt 40 years ago, this isnt 30 years ago, we are going to owe $20 trillion very soon. And we have to build our country again, we have to rebuild our infrastructure.
Weve wasted $4 trillion, probably more than that, somebody said $5 trillion the other day, I used to say $2 trillion. When I started this whole thing a couple of years, I said $2 trillion in Iraq. We got nothing except death and taxes. We got nothing.
We got nothing.
We have less power now in Iraq than the woman sitting in the front row who has never been to Iraq, okay, we have no power in Iraq. We have no power in Iraq.
Weve given Iraq to Iran -- you know Iran made the deal for the $150 billion, were they get back the $150 billion and I always say What a deal they made -- thats one of the great deals".""eve given Iraq to Iran -- you know Iran made the deal f"
Actually, about a year ago, I remembered that because the years, and years they were fighting, and fighting -- Iraq and Iran but their military was almost identical strength, and theyd fight -- they like to fight, great, great. We should have never been there and I said dont go there.
Who is the civilian -- nobody cared but I said dont go there, youre going to destabilize the Middle East. But theyd fight, and fight, and fight then Saddam Hussein would drop gas, the other side would complain, theyd fight a little more and then rest, then go back to fighting.
Then we obliterated one side and as sure youre sitting their, the greatest of all time is that we gave Iraq to Iran -- okay thats what we really gave them, forget the $150 billion. So Iraq has some of the greatest oil reserves in the world and we handed them -- Iraq, we handed it to Iran and we made Iran a very powerful -- they were struggling, they -- they were dying two years ago with the sanctions, and the problems. We made them powerful, very powerful.
We gave them a path to nuclear weapons which theyll have much sooner than people think. Im telling you we have incompetent leadership -- incompetent leadership and this is not what we want and it will change if Im elected president, believe me.
So, our goal is to keep jobs in America, our goal is to keep wealth in America -- we need wealth. A woman came up to me she said Mr.Trump
We want to save social security, we want to save our industries, we want to save people, we want to save Medicare, we want to save a lot of things. You have to have -- you have to bring back our wealth, our wealth is being dissipated. Were in a bubble -- were in a big fat ugly bubble
Hillary Clinton wants to tax and regulate our economy to death so just remember, if you vote for Hillary Clinton and if she gets in -- its hard to believe shed get in with all of the dishonest things shes done -- Hillary Clinton wants to tax and regulate our economy to death. If you were a foreign power looking to weaken America you couldnt ask for anything better than Hillary Clinton as your president.
So I always say this, I have a very, very simple policy, its called American first -- were going to put America first. Were going to make trade deals that our good for us.
Were going to make trade deals that are good for us not good for some other country, we dont put America first and the reason is because the donors, special interests and lobbyists, have total power over our politicians, they have no power over me. Im going to do whats right for our country and were going to do in a very friendly matter, were going to have great relationships -- better than we do now I mean we dont have good relationships with Mexico, we dont have good relationships with China, we dont have good relationships with most of these countries and they do nothing but take advantage of us..
Were going to have great relationships but its going to be a two-way street instead of a one-way street -- well have actually better relationships.
So I only say this, I have great respect for home-builders. I have great respect. As I grew up with a home-builder, hes a really good home-builder. And I used to sit at his knee with blocks and Id watch my father or Id listen to my father negotiate on the phone with the plumbers and the sheet rockers and the electricians and all of them.
And I learned, he didnt say listen to this, this is the way you negotiate. No, I just like listened for so many years that by the time I was 14 or 15 I think I -- I could build a home as well as I could build it today.
I learned tremendous, tremendous things from a home-builder, from a very good home-builder. From the man that loved what he was doing, he didnt like taking vacations because he got bored, he wanted to build another house.
Its true, he loved and like you people, you love -- you cant -- you cant wait to get back, right? Youre saying get Trump off, I want to get back and build another house.
But -- but I learned from a man, I learned so many things. And now were doing well and who would think I -- this was never in the cards for me. I mean if it were Id probably wouldve have a little softer path.
I wouldve moderated it. I wouldnt have spoken to Howard so much and had fun. But people get it, you know? Were living in the real world, people get it. I mean they really get it.
But Ill tell you what, I learned what I have and I created a phenomenal company, one of the best. I have some of the greatest real estate assets in the world right next door,  as an example.
But I learned what I had and what I have from a home-builder. A home-builder taught me everything I know, essentially. Now, Ive learned and Ive grown and Ive done things and he would be very proud to see that were running for the presidency and we beat a lot of people to get to this position. But I was just saying when I came out, I just thought as I walked out, I learned so much, so much, from a home-builder. Theres no greater thing you can do. Youre great people, I know so many of you.
And I really know all of you because I know where you come from. I know your mindset. You are amazing people. You can do amazing things. Now, go back and build homes and create jobs.
And we will make together America great again. Than you everybody, thank you. Thank you.
