Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in El Paso, Texas|February 11, 2019
Thank you very much, El Paso. Thank you very much. Thank you. I am very, very thrilled to be here in the great State of Texas -- right on the banks of the legendary Rio Grande, where by the -- well, I dont know, you heard, right? Today we started a big, beautiful wall right on the Rio Grande. Right smack on the Rio Grande.
I love this state and I love the people of this state. Weve had a great romance together. You know, that. Its been a great romance and were only getting stronger together. Thats whats happening. Wow, look at all the press back. You believe that?  This is like the Academy Awards used to be, used to be. Theyve gone down a long way since they started hitting us a little bit, right?
Theyve gone down. That was a long -- that was a long fall, but there they are. Last week I was honored to stand in the House Chamber to deliver the State of the Union -- and I asked both parties to come together to choose greatness for America. Since taking office two years ago our economy is now the hottest economy anywhere on Earth.
Our military, which desperately needed funding, we went $700 billion and $716 billion, is More powerful than ever before. That was not a good situation. It was tired and depleted. Our great warriors were not taken care of. Now theyre taken care of again the way they should be. And America is winning again.
Isnt that nice? Were fighting for all Americans, from all backgrounds of every age, race, religion, birthplace, color, creed. Were fighting for ourselves. Were fighting for all Americans. And what is it, America first? Remember, its America first.  Our agenda is not a partisan agenda, although some people say it is.  Every once in a while it does become that way.
Right? Its a mainstream, common sense agenda of the American people. Its where we want to be and where we want to go. And despite the fact that the media refuses to acknowledge what weve done and how well were doing it --  -- a new poll just came out as I was coming on and it shows -- I dont know how you can do this, I dont think Ive had a good story in years.
I dont get good -- I used to get great press until I decided to run for office. And we have done together, an incredible job. And a new poll just came out today Rasmussen, one of the most respected polls, one of the polls that got the election right, so I have to remember that, you know what the number is, 52 percent, with no good news.
Explain that. Explain that. Explain that. How do you get that when you dont get good press? I guess 93 percent of the stories are negative. No matter what we do, they figure out a way to make it bad.  Like, Ill give you a quick example. When I came in, North Korea was -- it looks like it was going to war.
You know that. It was going to happen, bad things. Now you have no missile launches. You have no rocket testing. You have no nuclear testing. I have a good relationship, maybe even a great relationship. We have tremendous sanctions on North Korea. But we have our hostages back. We have -- remains are coming back.
Remains. And our presidents have been dealing with North Korea for many, many decades, many, many decades. And on a nuclear way over the last 20, 30 years and all I hear is, "Cant you move faster?" You know what? I left Singapore 15 months ago, theyve been negotiating for 85 years or something. So now their complaint is, "Whats taking him so long?" I heard one of our great geniuses from a previous administration telling me how to negotiate with North Korea when they got taken advantage of like nobody Ive ever seen before.
So some day, with all of us, this is all of us -- and those hats are beautiful, by the way -- Someday -- True. Someday theyre going to appreciate us all. And Im going to Vietnam, to Hanoi, in the near future, 27th and 28th of February, to have another summit and hope we -- hopefully we do as well with the second summit as we did with the first.
I hope so. Now, were delighted and Im delighted to be joined this evening by the Texas leaders. You have great leaders, great people, great help to me -- that are at the forefront of this incredible American Revolution. You know, theres never been anything like this in the history of our country. We have to understand.
Theres never been. If you would say, as an example, that tonight, 69,000 people signed up to be here. Now, the arena holes 8,000, and thank you fire department, they got in about 10, thank you fire department, appreciate it. But if you want to really see something go outside, tens of thousands of people are watching screens outside.
Tens of thousands. And we were all challenged by a young man who lost an election to Ted Cruz.  And then they said, "You know what? Hey, youre supposed to win in order to run. By the way, we, I, we, Im one and one, Im one for one. Think of it. We had one election, we won, now were going to be 2 for 0 and everythings going to be perfect.
But a young man whos got very little going for himself, except hes got a great first name, he has -- he challenged us. So we have, lets say, 35,000 people tonight and he has 200 people, 300 people, not too good. In fact, what I do, what I would do is I would say, "that may be the end of his presidential bid," but he did challenge us. So I want to introduce some great people.
Your Governor, Greg Abbott. Greg. Where is he? Wheres Greg? Thank you Greg. And a great governor and a great friend of mine. Lieutenant Governor Dan Patrick. Thanks Dan. Thank you Dan. Look at him in the corner, so shy. Thank you Dan. Great job, Dan. Attorney General Ken Paxton. Thanks, Ken. And Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller.
Thank you, Sid. Thank you, everybody. Thanks, Ken. Great job you do. And were especially grateful to your wonderful Senators John Cornyn and Ted Cruz. Great Senators.  And we have a lot of your Congress men and women. We have a lot of them. Are you already? And theyre terrific. And theyve been with us all the way.
Pete Olson. Pete. Thanks, Pete. Thank you, Pete. Michael Burgess. Thanks Michael. John Carter. Brian Babin. And Randy Weber. Thank you very much. We are in the midst of an economic miracle. Thats whats happened. You look all over the world and you study and you see whats going on. You can look at China.
We have a team right now in China, they want to make a deal very badly. Those tariffs are costing them a lot of money and theyre going into our Treasury, remember that, were filling up with billions of dollars. And did you see the, you know, I havent been here very long, the trade deficit really went down very big this last month, and people are saying, "Whoa." I told you so. Thats what I do. Thats what I do. And we dont want China to have a hard time.
Thank you. Thank you. I -- I can only tell you this, were going to make great deals on trade. Were going to make great deals on military. When we defend another nation thats rich they have to help us out. Do we agree? They have to help us out. And theyre doing it. Theyre doing it. You saw South Korea, they were paying us $500 million a year.
I say you got to do more. You got to give more. Anyway. Now theyre up to almost $900 million, that was like a do phone calls. I said -- I said, "Why didnt they do this before?" They said, "Nobody ever asked. Nobody asked." You pick up almost $500 million a year, nobody asked. Were defending rich countries, theyve got to help us out, folks.
Theyve got help us out, sorry. And you know what? Theyre going like us more and maybe more importantly, they going to respect us. Since the election, we have created 5.3 million new jobs, including more than a half a million new manufacturing jobs. Remember, manufacturing was dead? They said manufacturing was dead, the previous administration.
Youll never have it. You need the magic wand. Thats what they said. We obviously, we found the magic wand. And by the way, those numbers is small compared to whats happening, compared to all of the companies that are moving in. The unemployment --  Thank you very much. Thank you.
The unemployment rates for African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans have reached the lowest level in the history of our country.  Okay, thank you. Thank you. Are you all right? Everything okay? Please. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And women have filled almost 60 percent of the new jobs created last year, which were a record number.
We passed massive tax cuts for working families and we canceled a record number of job killing regulations. Thats why your oil and gas is coming back. We eliminated the Obamacare individual mandate. And to give critically ill patients access to life saving treatments, we did something that they havent been able to do for a long time, we passed Right To Try.
Right To Try. Thats an incredible thing, Right To Try. You know, we have the greatest doctors and research in the world, and if somebody was terminally ill they traveled to Asia, they traveled to Europe, theyd travel all over the world, if they had the money. If they didnt have the money, theyd just go home, there was nothing they could do. And I said, "Wait a minute.
We have drugs in the pipeline that are showing tremendous progress. If somebody is terminally ill lets let them have access to our drugs. Lets let them have access." And its much tougher than you would think. But we got it and people, you will not understand, nobody understands, the lifesaving effects, its incredible whats going on. They are getting better.
People are getting better that were thinking they were going to die. Its right to try, I love it. I always wondered why we didnt do it before? Now, the people in Texas wont care much about this, but the United States is now the number one producer of oil and natural gas on Earth. I didnt think youd care about that.
I didnt think Texas would care about that. And listen to this, and Texas oil production is now at the highest level its ever been. And only for the great oil professionals in the room, were getting those pipelines approved so fast youll be able to practically double up on oil production, oil and gas.
Theyre getting approved at record levels and record time, that means more money, more security, and more independence for our country -- its very simple. Another one they said could never get passed, theyve been trying to do it for 40 years, we passed VA Choice, Veterans Choice. So that now, rather than waiting online for five days, for nine days, for three weeks --  Where do these people come from?
Where do they come from? They go back home to Mommy. They get punished when they get home.  Now, you really mean finish that Wall, because weve built a lot it, steady and slowly. But before we get to the Wall, so VA Accountability and VA Choice. Accountability, we couldnt fire anybody from the Veterans Administration.
We couldnt fire anybody. They could treat our veterans badly. We had to take it. Now, you get rid of them. And VA Choice, theyd wait online for days and weeks, they couldnt see a doctor. Now, they go out, they have a choice. They get a private doctor. They have things taken care of and we pay their bill.
Theyve been trying to get those two things fixed for many, many decades, many years and we got it fixed. We also passed the Farm bill for wonderful farmers, ranchers, and growers. Just got it. We just got it passed and that was it easy but we got it passed. We had to do it. Our farmers are great. So we just get that done, farmers, ranchers, growers.
And we passed historic legislation to combat the Opioid Crisis.  Thank you.  Thank you. Is there any place thats more fun to be that a Trump rally, is there any place? You know, they all said, "Mr. President, we loved the tone of your State of the Union speech." Some people said it was a great speech.
Some people said, "Really a great speech." I said, "But if I ever did that in El Paso, Texas, it wouldnt work here too well," do you agree? Nice and calm. No, thats not what youre looking for. This is more fun. This is more fun. And we just signed groundbreaking criminal justice reform into law. Nobody thought that was going to be happening.
In my address last week, I asked lawmakers in both parties to cross the aisle and join together for the common good for all Americans. Democrats have to stop being so angry. Theyre angry. And theyve got to start being partners to keep this -- really, look, is just an incredible miracle thats going on? We want to keep it going.
Keep it going, and it will keep going. It will keep going. Theres so much to celebrate in our country, the economy, the military, so many things weve done scientifically. The world is trying to copy what weve done, theyre not going to be able to do it. Not anymore. They were catching up fast, now theyre going in the wrong direction.
Wrong direction. Unfortunately, many of the Democrats in Congress responded to my call for bipartisan cooperation by instead choosing really -- hey, look, did you ever see anything -- radical resistance, its the radical left. But maybe itll change.  Maybe itll change. It all has to do with 2020 and the election.
But I really dont like their policy of taking away your car, of taking away your airplane flights, of "Lets hop a train to California."  Of youre not allowed to own cows anymore. You know, a lot of problems. A lot of problems. But nobodys ever had this. And by the way with us, we handle it. No president should ever have to go through what weve gone through in the first two years.
Its a hoax. Its a disgrace, and it should never be allowed to happen again. A hoax. Just recently, as an example, Senator Richard Burr, from the great State of North Carolina. Hes chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee and theyve been investigating this Russia hoax for two years.  Think of it. Theyve interviewed over 200 people.
Theyve studied hundreds of thousands of documents and pages and Richard just announced that they found no collusion between Donald Trump and Russia collusion. The fact is, that the real collusion was between Hillary and the Democrats and the other side with Russia, thats where the collusion is. Thats where the collusion is.  Thats starting to make a lot more sense.
But thats where the collusion is, with the Democrats, and with Russia, and with others. And by the way, theres also collusion between the Democrats and the fake news right here.  And they know it better than anybody. Too many Democrats are focused on tearing down their opposition instead of building up our country.
Theyre trying to impose some of the most extreme measures and policies ever put forward by our Congress. And by the way, I dont think anybody in this room wants to pay 70, 80, 90 and 95 percent tax. Does anybody want to pay a 90 percent tax?  You know, you look at what weve done with jobs, what weve done with the economy, how low your taxes are, the lowest theyve been almost from the beginning, who the hell wants to change what were doing now?
We are a hot, hot country. Last week they introduced a massive government takeover that would destroy our incredible economic gains. They introduced the so-called Green New Deal.  It sounds like a high school term paper that got a low mark.  It would shut down American energy, which I dont think the people in Texas are going to be happy with that.
It would shut down a little thing called air travel.  How do you take a train to Europe?  You know, this -- this crazy senator from Hawaii, they said, "Do you like it?" "Yes, I like it very much." Oh, really, how are we getting to Hawaii on a train?  She didnt think about that one but shes thinking about it. Shell figure it out.
They want to take away your car, reduce the value of your home, and put millions of Americans out of work, spend $100 trillion, which by the way, theres no such thing as $100 trillion, you have to spend $100 trillion -- And remember this, no other country except us is going to do it. Thats a little problem, too.
While the worlds real polluters, like China, would get many of our companies and factories, theyd just move into China, move into other parts of the world. Thats the way the system works. Its not going to happen folks. Dont worry, its not going to happen. Not going to happen. $100 trillion. Lets spend $100 trillion.
Lets rip down every building in New York City and rebuild it environmentally slightly better. To pave the way for socialism, Democrats are calling for massive tax hikes and the complete elimination of private health care. Many of us have private health care. That means you can stand on line for five days as you wait for a doctor that is not nearly as talented as your doctor.
Remember? "You can keep your doctor." Remember that? 28 times, "You can keep it." That didnt happen. It turned out to be alive. Hey, where are the fact checkers? You know, some of the most dishonest people in media are the so-called fact checkers. 28 times, "You can keep your doctor." That didnt turn out to be what he said.
Theyre coming for your money and theyre coming for your freedom and itll never happen and it wont even come close, folks. Democrats are also pushing extreme late-term abortion.  Allowing children to be ripped from their mothers womb right up until the moment of birth. Whats that all about?
So in Virginia, the governor, hes got a little publicity lately.  I like it. It keeps us out of the papers. I like it. Id like to find a few more guys like this one. He almost moon walked. His wife stopped him, "Darling, that would be inappropriate." I want to see somebody trying to imitate Michael Jackson in the moonwalk.
This would not have been a good scene. His wife saved him, darling, this would be inappropriate." I think she was right. But the governor stated that he would even allow a newborn baby to come out into the world and wrap the baby and make the baby comfortable. And then talk to the mother and talk to the father and then execute the baby.
Execute the baby.  Incredible. Millions of innocent, beautiful babies are counting on us to protect them and we will. That is why last week I go I called on Congress, with your great congressman over there -- thank you, fellas -- to immediately pass legislation prohibiting extreme late-term abortion.
And that certainly is extreme. Many people never even heard of it. I mean, have you ever even hear of anything like this?  Democrats must also address the double standard on full display in Virginia. By the way, that states going to go Republican pretty soon, Im pretty sure -- because the Democrat Party has never been more outside of the mainstream.
Theyre becoming the party of socialism, late-term abortion, open borders, and crime.  This weekend, some Democrats even proposed a measure that would force the release of thousands of criminal illegal aliens --  -- including dangerous felons convicted of rape, sex trafficking, violent assault, and even murder, into our country.
Can you believe this?  Their proposal would put a hard cap on the number of illegal aliens that are brave ICE officers, we love our ICE officers -- can detain and thus remove, forcing thousands of criminals to be set free into United States communities. I dont think so. Okay. I dont think so. And I want to thank our ICE offices.
What they put up is incredible and that includes Border Patrol and that includes law enforcement. Lets face it. Law enforcement, we love them. They keep us safe. In the last two years alone, ICE officers have made 200, listen to these numbers, 266,000 arrests of criminal aliens, including those charged or convicted of approximately 100,000 assaults, 40,000, 40,000 larcenies 30,000 sex crimes, 25,000 burglaries, 12,000 vehicle thefts, 11,000 robberies, 4,000 kidnappings, and 4,000 murders.
-- murders, murders, killings, murders.  We will. We will. If we cut detention space, we are cutting loose dangerous criminals into our country. Slashing ICE tension is the first step of many for the far left, I call them the radical left We will never abolish ICE.
They want to abolish ICE. Were never going to abolish ICE. So let me say very clearly to those pushing this ridiculous and radical agenda, I will never sign a bill that forces the mass release of violent criminals into our country. And I will never abolish or in any way mistreat our great heroes from ICE, and Border Patrol, and law enforcement, never.
We will always stand with those brave men and women. We will always be with them. Were going to take care of them just like they take care of us, remember that. Now, I have to tell you, as I was walking up to the stage they said that progress is being made with this committee. Just so you know, were building the Wall anyway.
They say that progress has been made, interesting. Just now. Just now. I said, "Wait a minute. I got to take care of my people from Texas. I got to go. I dont even want to hear about it." I dont want to hear it. So I dont know what they mean "progress is being made significant". Now, what did happen is the Democrats were being hit really hard on the concept of releasing criminals into our society, that has not been playing well.
So maybe progress is being made, maybe not. But I had a choice, I could have stayed out there and listened or I could have come out to the people of El Paso in Texas. I chose you. I chose you. So -- so we probably have some good news. But who knows? Who knows? Well -- were -- were setting the stage folks.
You know what its called, right? Its called with setting the stage. Were setting the table. Were doing whatever we have to do the walls being built, itll continue. Its going at a rapid pace. The Rio Grande, its happening, go check it out. We proudly welcome those who come lawfully, and support our values in the United States, and that want to strengthen our society and help us with all of the companies moving into the United States, moving back, they left us now theyre moving back, many of them, in some cases, maybe all of them, but they all want to come back because the United States is where the action is, very simple.
Its where the action is. And it is -- were most proud of the fact, you look at the car companies, theyre moving back. Theyre going into Michigan. Theyre going into Pennsylvania. Theyre going back to Ohio. So many companies are coming back. And by the way, thats why I want people to come into our country but they have to come in legally and they have to come in through merit.
Through merit, so they can help us build our country. Make America Great Again, pretty soon were going to be saying, Keep America Great, Keep America Great. Pretty soon. Pretty soon, congressman, Keep America Great. Well have to switch over. Tell me, tell me, the campaigns sort of started because you have these people that nobody ever heard of, theyre all running for office.
I said, "Who is that?" "Well, that person was a mayor of a city that was defeated." Well, how about Beto, Beto was defeated to, right?  But he suffered a great defeat. Watch what the news does tomorrow, though, they wont mention the disparity. They wont mention the disparity tomorrow. Theyll say, "Beto ORourke," Thats his last name, right, ORourke?
Beta ORourke had a wonderful rally of about 15 people.  No, when they get honest, when the media starts becoming honest, and maybe they will, because weve done something thats never been done before, we have suffered a totally dishonest media and weve won and its driving them crazy.
Its driving them crazy. Its driving them crazy but look at them, they still come. Ive never said anything like it. But illegal immigration hurts all Americans, including millions of legal immigrants, by driving down wages, draining public resources, and claiming countless innocent lives. You see whats going on, folks.
You know whats going on. They give you all of these phony stats they say, "Oh, its the same. Its the same." Its not the same. Its a bad situation going on and weve stopped it. We are taking out thousands and thousands of people from MS-13, were bringing them to hell out of our country, thousands. But if we had proper border security, including a very powerful wall, we wouldnt have to work so hard and it would be a lot safer and a lot better.
My Administration is committed to ending illegal immigration, while modernizing our legal immigration system, which has been in terrible shape for many, many decades to prioritize the admission of those who can support themselves for them actually and contribute to our economy, people that come in on merit, merit, merit -- instead of random lotteries and chain migration.
Chain migration, thats another beauty.  We want a merit based system for entry, this will improve living conditions for all Americans living here today, both immigrant and U.S. born, everybodys going to be happy. And we need the people to take care of these companies that are moving. Our unemployment rate, real unemployment, 3.6, 3.7 -- and going down, had a little blip because of a thing called the shutdown.
But remember, it went up to 4.0. I said, "Boy, thats -- " Do you know how low 4.0 is? Do you know anybody else, any other president that would have said, "Please give me 4.0, please?"  We had a little blip, it went up from 3.7 to 4.0, just quickly. But you know what? If we didnt do that shutdown we would not have been able to show this country these politicians, the world, what the hell is happening with the border.
That was a very important thing we did. And the fact is, illegal immigration is a heartbreaking human tragedy. One in three women is sexually assaulted on the very long and dangerous journey north up to our country. Sex traffickers, these are the worst human beings on Earth, exploit our porous border to sell young girls and women into modern day slavery.
You wouldnt even know that, nobody knows that. And by the way, do you think they come in through the ports of entry?  I listen to the Democrats, let me nice, just say the Democrats, I wont be specific, and they say, "Oh, everything comes through the port." They dont do that. They drive out where theres no barrier, no wall, they make a left.
Congratulations, youre in the United States. Thats all. If you have three women tied up in the backseat of a car, youre not going through, folks, a port of entry where they do look in the backseat, at least, right? Drugs pouring through the border kills tens of thousands of innocent Americans a year, including heroin, meth, cocaine, fentanyl, and so many others.
They come through the Southern border. We have a drug problem over the last 6, 7, 10 years like we have never had before. We can have such a big cut in the numbers, in the percentages, if we get the Wall built -- if we have a strong Wall with other things, but we need the Wall and it has to be built and we want to build it fast.
The number of illegal immigrants crossing our borders is so large that weve know where to hold them. We have to build -- they want buildings, they want jails. They want, these people, how about the word caravan?  Caravan, I think that was one of mine, but it looked like a caravan. Where you have thousands and thousands of people coming from Guatemala, from Honduras, and El Salvador, and they march up through Mexico.
And by the way, if we didnt have walls in those areas, in some cases that we put up, in many cases where we reinforced, in many cases where our great military helped us with barbed wire -- you would have people pouring in. They dont pour in. The problem is our laws are so bad that theres no way we can quickly remove them.
Other countries say, "Get out of here." We have to bring them through a court system. We sign their names, they touch our land, we sign them up, we explained to them, "Please come back in six years for court," and only the dumbest people show back up. Nobody ever shows up. Nobody comes back in, like 2 percent.
They go in to our country. The good news is we have great law enforcement and many of these people, we know where they are, and were going to get them the hell out. But we have to change our laws. So right now we have a backlog. You wont even believe this. Other countries dont do this. Somebody walks into our country, we bring them to court, we have now a legal -- we need Perry Mason --  -- we have a legal case.
Nobody else does that. Other countries say, "Get out. You cant come in. Youre not a citizen of whatever country." We bring them in. So listen to this, right now we have almost 900,000 cases, 900,000. How many judges are going to take care of -- were going to have to hire tens of thousands of judges to do that, 900,000 cases.
How stupid is this? This was a system put in place by really dumb people or people that did not have the best interests of our country at heart. And theres no place better to talk about border security, whether they like it or not, because Ive been hearing a lot of things," Oh, the Wall didnt make that much of a difference." You know where it made a big difference?
Right here in El Paso. And Ive been watching where theyve been trying to say, "Oh, the Wall didnt make that much -- " Well you take a look at what they did with their past crimes and how they made them from very serious to a much lesser, you take a look at what the real system is. I spoke to people that have been here a long time they said, "When that wall went up, its a whole different ball game." Is that a correct statement?
A whole different ball game. Ill give you another example. And I dont care whether a mayor is a Republican or a Democrat, theyre full of crap when they say it has it made a big difference. I heard the same thing from the fake news. They said, "Oh, crime actually stayed the same." It didnt say the same, it went way down and look at what they did to their past crimes and look at how they recorded those past crimes, it went way, way down.
These people, you know, youd think did want to get to the bottom of a problem and solve a problem, not try and pull the wool over everybodys eyes. So for those few people that are out there on television saying, "Oh, it didnt make too much of a difference," it made a -- people from El Paso, am I right?
Its fake news. Its fake. Im telling you, just fake news. And you know what? You wouldnt even have to know you can say that automatically without even knowing it. Its obvious, its common sense. Just a few thousand feet, as an example, from where we stand right now on the other side of the border, its one of the most dangerous cities in the world, Juarez, Mexico.
Well, the people at Juarez agree. Yet, thanks to a powerful border wall and El Paso, Texas its one of Americas safest cities now. Now, listen to the this, so youre talking a few feet away, right, a few feet, got a wall, a few feet away. Last year Juarez had 1,200 murders, El Paso, right next door, a few feet away, had 23 murders.
Thats not good either. But 23 compared to 1,200. Walls work, actually theres nothing like them for what were talking about. We want to stop drugs. We want to stop traffickers. We want to stop criminals from coming in, walls save lives. Walls save tremendous numbers of lives. The biggest proponents of open borders are rich liberals and wealthy donors.
These are hypocrites who oppose security for you while living their entire lives -- I do it too, to be honest with you, Im guilty. Im guilty. I also live behind walls, okay. They live behind walls and gates in their guards all over the place. Me too, because I want to be safe and I want to make America safe, if you dont mind.
So security should not belong only to the rich and to the powerful, safety is the birthright of every American, which is why we must finish the Wall. Its happening. Because walls are not immoral, as it was said, human trafficking is immoral.  Drug peddling is immoral.
Child smuggling is immoral.  Sanctuary Cities that get Americans killed, theyre immoral.  Open borders are dangerous and immoral.  My administration has put forward a compromise that really is a compromise, and I hate even compromise on things like this, but its showing common sense, its compassionate, and its going to solve our problem and the cost is a fraction.
When you look at the drugs that are pouring across from Mexico, if it stopped a small percentage, and it wont, itll stop a large percentage, it would pay for itself in a matter of weeks. Thats the kind of numbers youre talking about, a matter of weeks. And by the way, I -- I hate to say this, because we have a very good relationship, but Mexico had the highest number of killings that theyve ever had, almost 40,000 people were murdered in Mexico.
Mexico is not too far away, and we need to take care of our people and were going to do that and its happening and its happening a lot faster than anybody thought. And I love that sign. Thank you. What were proposing includes humanitarian assistance, drug detection at our ports and everywhere else, closing legal loopholes, which is a big problem, and plans for a smart, strategic, see-through steel barrier or wall, lets call it a wall, its better.
This wall will be built in the areas identified by border agents is having the greatest need while safely directing people and commerce to our many lawful ports of entry, which were beefing up in every way, structurally, with beefing up the ports of entry and mechanically. We have equipment now that can spot drugs.
Its incredible stuff. Its expensive. Its incredible. By the way, there is nothing better than a good old-fashioned German Shepherd. Its hard to believe, right. Its true you know, I -- I was with the people and theyre showing me this incredible computerized stuff and where it goes. I said "Could I -- "Because Secret Service took me out to the place and they were showing me these German Shepherds, theyre unbelievable.
Theyll run past all these empty boxes and one of the boxes has drugs in it, deep down in a box and they come to a screeching halt barking at it every time. So I asked the people that sell the machinery, at a lot of money, so I said, "Let me ask you a question. This stuff is incredible. Im really impressed.
How does it compare to a German Shepherd?" The guy looks at and says, "Sir, honestly, its not as good." Can you believe it? A German Shepard. Certain types of dogs, pretty good. You do love your dogs, dont you? I wouldnt mind having one, honestly, but I dont have any time, I dont have -- How would I look walking a dog on the White House lawn, would that be -- Right, sort of not for -- I dont know, it doesnt -- I dont feel good.
It feels a little phony-phony to me. A lot of people say, "Oh, you should get a dog." "Why?" "Its good politically." I said, "Look, thats not the relationship I have with my people. We want -- "  Yeah, Obama had a dog, youre right.  Both parties should come together to finally create a safe and lawful system of immigration.
The American people have waited long enough. We must secure the border, pass Kates Law -- end Catch and Release, shutdown Sanctuary Cities -- you know, we need Democrat votes to do that -- deport criminal aliens, and keep the coyotes and traffickers and drug dealers the hell out of our country, please. And the Democrats also need to confirm the more than 300 highly qualified nominees who are sitting in the Senate waiting for confirmation, people that have given up their lives to work in the Trump administration and the Democrats arent approving them.
Its a record.  Its total obstruction. Its a record of the history of our country there has never been -- Some people left the job a year and a half ago, two years ago, to become an ambassador or to work at one of our many great agencies and we cant get Schumer and his friends to approve them.
Its total obstruction. Theres never been anything like it. Very, very unfair, very unfair to these people. In many cases, seriously, theyve left jobs and theyre waiting and waiting and waiting, theyre slow walking every single one of them. Its a disgrace. As we fight to protect our borders we must also protect our newfound prosperity.
My administration has taken the toughest ever action to crack down on years of Chinas abuse and its trade practices have been very unfair. And I have a lot of respect for President Xi, but hes representing China and Im representing the United States. Were also replacing one of the worst deals ever made, probably the worst trade deal ever done, although I happen to think that the WTO is not so good either, were replacing NAFTA with a brand new U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement that everybody is loving.
Weve got to get Congress to approve it. Weve got to get Congress to approve. Well get it, I think done. I mean, theres such obstruction in Congress, you know, they wont even do things that are good for our country now. They would rather have Trump have a loss than get something thats so good for our country.
Our farmers are happy, everybodys happy. And its going to be jobs. You know, what it does? It stops companies from moving out. It makes it very hard economically for companies to say, "Hey, thanks a lot. Were firing everybody, were moving to Mexico." Makes it very, very hard. You know, thats been a bone of contention for me for many years.
Ive seen 25 percent and more of our automobile business move to Mexico and its not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen anymore. Unless they want to pay nice big fat tariffs to send their cars back into this country Weve achieved, and by the way, tariffs had have had an incredible effect. Just ask the folks in China, "How are we doing with tariffs?" You ask.
And you ask, "How are we doing in our negotiations?" The fact is, and I say it openly, either they treat us fairly or they have to pay for the privilege of coming in and taking our wealth and taking our jobs, its very simple. Its very, very simple. And if you look back at our country when we were very rich, when we had no debt, when we had no problems economically, you take back -- you take a look, 1888, the Great Tariff Debate, you know the debate was about?
Our country had so much money they had to debate what the hell to do with all the money because tariffs were bringing in a fortune into the United States. So at a minimum, countries in negotiating with us very seriously because of the fact that they dont want to have to pay to come in and take advantage of our country, thats at a minimum.
Check it out, 188. Have the press check it out. Theyll say, "Donald Trump said 1888."  Weve achieved the largest decline in drug prices in 46 years, prescription drugs. And Im asking Congress to work with me to make prescription drugs affordable for every American family. We just got the largest decrease in drug prices, think of that, and its not easy, its not easy.
Because we have middlemen that take care of a lot of people for a lot of years, these middlemen and the drug companies, but even worse, the middleman, and were cutting the middleman out. theyre not going to like be very much. They made a lot of money. But think of that, theyre better the first time in 46 years.
And now were going to phase three, we did one statutorily, we did two statutorily, now we go to phase three, were getting your drug prices down. Were embarking on bald initiatives to defeat AIDS. Who knew that? We have medicines now that work wonders on AIDS. Were looking to be AIDS-free in not many years as a country and maybe help, also, the world, the world.
So we want to defeat AIDS and we want to feed childhood cancer. Weve made tremendous strides. Tremendous strides. In the Middle East, are brave warriors have liberated virtually 100 percent of ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Now, you dont hear that from these people. Now, weve taken back -- soon itll be announced soon, maybe over the next week, maybe less, but itll be announced very soon -- well have 100 percent.
When I took over this country, it was a mess. And if I wouldnt have been elected -- You know, I have so many people, I was just walking up and every time it happens, "Sir, thank you. Thank you very much." This guy, hes -- hes like a monster. No, no, its true. These people. This guy is like a monster.
Hes like this monster football -- a big, strong guy. He says to me, he said, "Thank you very much." I dont know what theyre saying, but thats okay. Now hes this big, strong guy and hes crying. And he said, "Mr. -- " Im walking up and it happens all the time. "Thank you very much, Mr. President." I said, "For what?" He said, "Youve saved our country.
Our country was going in the wrong direction. Youve saved our country. Thank you." Ive had so many people say that. So many people. You know what the truth is though? I didnt save our country, were now heading in the right direction. Its very tough because we have so many things were fighting, including these people.
But so many people that were finding, so many people that are either foolish or ill-intentioned. But you know, I didnt save our county, you know saved our country, you saved our country. You saved our country, and God. Because theres never -- nothing like this has ever happened before. And you know what?
The world is watching and when prime ministers, and when presidents, and kings and queens, they talked to me they say, "Congratulations on whats happened with your economy, Mr. President, its incredible." Theyre emulating what were doing. They cant believe it. So we continue to decimate the remnants, because theyre always going to be remnants, we can take the area the land, well soon have 100 percent, but theyre always remnants, they get out, they wrap themselves in bombs.
Theyre crazy. Theyre lunatics. But youre always going to have that. But we want to bring, now -- weve got 100 percent. It was so bad when I took over, it was going the opposite direction. Syria, we want to bring our troops back home. Its time. Its time. Its time. And thanks to the extraordinary service of our military in Afghanistan, 19 years were in Afghanistan, we may now be able to seek a political resolution that, frankly, theyve wanted to talk about for a long time.
Weve hit them very hard, but its been 19 years. Think of that, 19 years. We spend more on military in Afghanistan, $50 billion a year, than most countries spend on their entire country, healthcare, education, everything. We spend more than they do. Its time to start thinking smart for our country. What we want to build our country.
We want to spend money in our country. We want to build our roads, and highways, and bridges, and dams. And last month the United States recognize the legitimate government of Venezuela and condemned the socialist brutality of the Maduro regime.  Everywhere socialism has been, everywhere its been implemented, its produced poverty, misery, repression, and despair.
You take a look no matter where. Yet, there are those trying to implement socialism right here in the United States. So I, again, say to you --  -- and I say it for the world to hear, America will never be a Socialist country, never, never.  Were born free. We will live free and we will die free.
We will always be free. Each of us here tonight is united by the same timeless values. We believe in the American Constitution and our great rule of law. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy, are the center of the American way.
We believe in religious liberty, the right to free speech, and the right to keep and bear arms. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our incredible history, and always respect our great American flag. We believe that the first duty of government is to be loyal to its citizens.
And we live by the words of our national motto that we are going to keep -- well never change this -- In God We Trust. These are the beliefs, traditions, and principles that bind us together as citizens, as neighbors, as great patriots. These are the values that unite people all across the great State of Texas.
From Houston to Austin, from Dallas to El Paso -- from the Red River to the Rio Grande, the Lone Star State embodies the spirit of independence like maybe no other place anywhere in the world. And you have always embraced the cause of American Freedom like no one else. This is the state where William Travis, James Bowie, and Davy Crockett made their last stand at the Alamo.
This is the state where a small band of patriots at the Battle of Gonzalez, armed with a single cannon, stared down a foreign, powerful army and declared, "Come and take it." Come on, come on, take it. Texas is the state where generations of farmers, ranchers, oil workers, and pioneers help build up the most extraordinary nation in all of human history.
Thats what we are. We were losing track, we didnt lose track getting more, were just great on that track. Now, just like generations of Texas patriots who came before, you are going to make your stand. Thats what weve done, weve made our stand and weve made it together. This is a big group of millions and millions of people that have come together like never before in our history.
