Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Delivers a Campaign Speech in Raleigh, NC|November 7, 2016
Thank you very much. This is amazing. What a great place. Thank you very much. So we have thousands of people outside trying to get in, but we should start. Do we agree? We should start, so theyll come in. Theyll come in. First of all, I want to thank you, special, special place. Its a special place with incredible people.
In one day -- do you believe this? One day, we are going to win the great state of North Carolina and we are going to win back the White House. This election will decide whether we are ruled by a corrupt, political class. Youre seeing whats happening. Everybodys watching. Or whether we are ruled by the people, were going to be ruled by the people, folks.
That is going to be the choice. Our failed political establishment has delivered nothing but poverty, nothing but problems, nothing but losses -- nothing but losses. We dont win anymore as a country. Were going to start winning again. They get rich by making America poor in many cases. Its time to reject the media and political elite that has bled our country dry.
And these are among the most dishonest people, they dont give you the truth, folks. They dont give you the truth. They rarely give you the truth, you know it, and they know it. Thats the scary part. They know it. Its time to fight for America. Im not a politician, I can say proudly. My only special interest is you.
Its you. Were going to bring back the jobs that have been stolen from you. Were going to bring back the wealth that has been taken from our country. Were going to bring back the miners and the factory workers and the steelworkers. Were going to put them back to work. The economic policies of Bill and Hillary Clinton have destroyed manufacturing in your state and throughout the entire country.
The corrupt Clintons gave us NAFTA. China is too horrible -- entry into the World Trade Organization, one of the disasters. The job killing deal with South Korea, that was a Hillary Clinton beauty, and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will be a total disaster. That Hillary Clinton said, "This is the gold standard." And you know it is the goals, shes lied.
She lied during the debate. She said -- hey, by the way, who won the debate? Did we win that debate? But she lied during the debate. She lied during the debate. She said its the gold standard, and then she said shed never said it. Dont worry about coal, were bringing back coal, sir. Hes holding up -- Trump loves -- clean coal -- clean coal.
Right? Were going to do clean coal. The miners -- the miners are going to be back. Not if Hillary Clinton gets  -- the miners, I guess you got to start thinking about something else. But the miners are going to be back, clean coal. Clean coal. You know, thinking about it though. Also, people -- the press doesnt talk about it. Donna Brazile gets the questions to a debate, but then it turns out to be a number of debates.
Who cares about Donna Brazile? Shes turned out to be not what people thought. She gets -- illegally -- illegally, she gets the questions to the debate. She then takes those questions and gives them to crooked Hillary Clinton. Now, does crooked Hillary report it? Does she say, "I shouldnt have these questions or these answers?" I think they gave him the answers also, right?
No, she doesnt. No, he does. I wonder if she had -- I wonder if she had the questions in my debates. I dont think so, because she didnt do that well. I dont think so. I dont think so. But the years of betrayal will end and they will end, and theyre going to end quickly. Theyre going to end as of the day we take office, which is going to be very, very soon.
The theft of North Carolina jobs will end. Youve taken it harder than most states. Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare. Sadly, its just been announced that the residents of North Carolina are going to experience massive double digit premium hikes. 95 of the 100 North Carolina counties will only have one insurer in the Obamacare exchange next year.
Lots of luck negotiating. Honestly, its not going to matter because were going to win and were going to terminate it. Youre going to have such great health care for much less money. It wont matter. Premiums are surging. Companies are leaving. Insurers are fleeing. Doctors are quitting. By the way, doctors, theyre leaving, theyre quitting.
I have a friend whos a doctor. He said, "I have more accountants than I have nurses. Its so complicated." And deductibles are going through the roof. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down and expand Obamacare and make it even more expensive. Im asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in North Carolina.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. People are pouring in, folks. Theyre pouring in. Did you see last night in Michigan the crowd we had? And the crowd we had -- what -- by the way, how about 24,000, maybe 25,000 right next to Fort Bragg. You saw that the other night. And we went to Minnesota. Minnesota has been treated very, very badly.
We went to Minnesota where were doing very well. Everyone said, "Why Minnesota? That doesnt go Republican?" Its going Republican this year, Ill tell you. Minnesota, great place. And, you know, youve been watching and youve been seeing, and these people are being driven crazy, the dishonest media. Were winning Ohio.
Were winning Iowa. Were winning, we think, New Hampshire, were going to do great in New Hampshire. I hear were winning North Carolina big. I hear. Were winning Florida -- winning Florida, doing really well. Headlines today on Drudge how well were doing in Florida. And I think were going to win the great state of Pennsylvania.
I do. And were winning plenty of other places, so we have to go -- the big key, you have to go. You know, were in a rigged system, folks. Were in a rigged system. You got to go. You got to vote. Got to make sure that vote gets registered in there. Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.
Thank you. Wow. Great, great spirit. I have a job right next to -- we have a beautiful, beautiful property right next to -- right near Charlotte. Do you know about it, folks? Its great, right? Some of the people. But its an amazing place. Its an amazing place to work and to live, and we love it. Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the Office of the Presidency of the United States.
She threaten national security. She sold her office to the highest bidder, and then to cover her tracks, she deleted 33,000 e-mails after receiving a Congressional subpoena, and nothing happens to her. Nothing happens. Shes being protected by a totally rigged system, folks. Shes being protected. You know, James Cartwright -- General James Cartwright, current general, four star general.
Two weeks ago, probably going to jail for up to five years for doing nothing by comparison. In fact, he said he did it for national security reasons, so I can understand that. Going to jail for up to five years. General Petraeus, his life was destroyed. And here she is, shes running for President. Shes done 25 times worse than anybodys ever dreamt.
Its a rigged system. It is a rigged, rigged system. Dont worry, folks, the cameras will never spin around and show this crowd. They never do. They show my face and the two people behind me, not the thousands behind me. They never do. They never do. So dishonest. There they are. There they are, my group, Women for Trump.
Women for Trump. Theyve been following me, these ladies, for a long time. How are we doing? Are we doing well? Great people. Women for Trump. And now, its up to the American people to deliver the justice that we deserve at the ballot box tomorrow -- at the ballot box. Were going to win. I think its a great way of showing what we have to show in light of whats going on with justice in this country.
I really do. I think its a great way, you show it tomorrow. You show it tomorrow. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take our country back from the special interests. And folks, I was on the other side for a long time. Its a very good place to be. But I love the country.
I love this country. Ive really gotten to love the people of this country because I have been everywhere. We have the greatest people on Earth. But I love this country and I couldnt watch it when they make the Iran deal. They give them $150 billion, a terrorist state. A state that was ready to collapse until we made them rich and powerful.
We gave them a path to nuclear weapons. They were ready to collapse. We gave them, remember, $400 billion, right? We gave them $400 million. Then we found out that was wrong, it wasnt $400 million. It was $1.7 billion in cash -- in cash. Do you know what $1.7 billion in cash is? You take that whole side of the arena, you wouldnt have enough room.
How stupid are we to allow this to happen? Our leaders are incompetent. President Obama is campaigning today with Hillary Clinton because she cant campaign. She cant campaign. So Obama is taking Air Force One, which costs a fortune. You know, hes very much into the environment and, you know, take a massive old engine 747, very much into the environment, very much into the ozone layer.
And yet hell fly that 747 all over the place to campaign for crooked Hillary. And I dont think its going to work. And shes not getting any crowds, so she gets Beyonce and Jay-Z. I like them. I like that. And you know what they do? I get bigger crowds than they do. Its true. I get far bigger crowds.
Look at this place. I mean, look at the crowds we had in Michigan. By the way, Michigan is in play. You know, it hasnt been in play for Republicans for 30 something years. Michigan is in play because theyre tired of watching their car factories be taken out. Theyre tired of losing their jobs to Mexico.
Ford -- Ford, right now, moved all of its small -- small car production to Mexico. Theyre building the biggest plants in the world in Mexico. And Michigans going to vote for Trump because Ive been complaining about it for five years to Michigan. No, were going to have some -- tomorrows going to be a very historic day, I really believe that.
I think its going to show. I think its going to be a Brexit plus, plus, plus. Does that make sense? Plus, plus, plus. Going to be amazing. Going to be amazing. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words were all about say. This is a phrase, I tell you, I didnt like it. I thought it was hokey.
But its not hokey, its called drain the swamp. Were going to go to Washington. Were going to drain the swamp. Cant believe it. I told this too, I hated that expression. I said, "No way Im going to say that. No way." Thats so hokey, and I said, the place went crazy. Then I said it to another place, it went crazier.
Then I said it was more confidence because, you know, confidence is -- and it went wild. Now I love the expression. I think it was genius. Drain the swamp, drain the swamp.  Is there any place better to be than a Trump rally? Are we having fun? Are we having fun? No? And I dont have a guitar and I dont have a piano.
All we have is great concepts for our country, which is the most important thing. Because, frankly, when people get on stage and theyre entertainers, and they entertain in order to get people to fill up a room for Hillary Clinton. And by the way, they use the dirtiest language the other night. Anyones -- many of the people left.
You know, theyre political people. They heard words theyve never heard before, they left. So the place was half empty by the time -- actually, it never got full even with them. Then it was pretty much empty midway through. And then most of the people just left. And when Hillary got up, there was practically -- she might as well just have started with a few people, it would have been easy.
But, you know, she hears those words. I wont use the words. I wont even address the words, because if I do, the crooked media will say, "Did you hear what Donald Trump said today?" But honestly -- yeah. Those words were disgusting. If I ever said those words that Jay-Z said or that Beyonce said the other night, you know what would happened to me? The reinstitution of the electric chair.
It would be -- how about if I got the answers to the debate or if I got the questions? Supposing, instead of Hillary getting the questions to the debate, which is cheating. Shes a cheat. She is a cheat. She never reported it. Shes a cheat. So supposing instead of her, supposing somebody gave Donald Trump the questions to the debate, headlines all over the world, "He must withdraw from the race." You dont even hear anything about crooked Hillary.
She got the questions. To me, thats such a big deal. Some people say -- my people, "Dont mention that. Its just -- ". I said, "To me, its a big deal." Thats a big deal. But its not a big deal for the dishonest media. Say, they dont want to report it. But just think about it, supposing it was us. At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs, bring them back to America.
And by the way, you have a great Governor, support your Governor. Hes a great guy. Where is he? Hes here someplace. He is a great guy and hes in a tough fight and hes going to win that fight. But hes a great guy. So hopefully, youll support your Governor. North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and his lovely wife, Hillary.
No, think of it -- think of it. Think of the numbers of jobs. Heres the one that gets me the most, two things get me the most, two things, that just dont seem real. Because were going to take care of our veterans, right? Like big league, because our veterans are great. But two -- two statistics I cant believe, 22 suicides a day for our veterans.
Think of it. You wouldnt think thats possible. Because theyre treated so badly, they wait on line for six -- seven -- eight days for a simple procedure that could solve their problem or for a prescription. But two -- two numbers I dont -- it just doesnt make sense. 22 suicides a day for our veterans, OK? It doesnt make sense.
And heres another one. America has lost 70,000 factories. Now, I thought they meant 700 or 7,000 maybe. Its 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary Clinton backed disaster. Think of it though. Think of what 70,000 factories is. So those are the two numbers, they just dont seem to be real.
Sad numbers -- sad numbers, especially the vets to be honest with you. Were living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of our world. Theres never been anything happen to a country like its been happening to the United States. Our jobs are fleeing, our companies are being taken and leaving -- and leaving.
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving American and we will stop the jobs from leaving North Carolina. Believe me. If a company wants to fire their workers and leave, as an example, North Carolina, and move to another country, and then ship their products back into the United States through what will be a very strong border, by the way.
We will make them pay a 35% tax on every product that they ship back here. And heres whats going to happen. Theyre not going to leave. Theyre not going to leave. Now, your politicians, some of them dont understand it. And the one . I love that sign. Now, its all over the place. Well, yeah, yeah.
Theres this for Trump. I like that. But no, I saw that outside. Were going to stand up to China. Were going to stop the job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. You know. Look, as part of our plan, the taxes, were the highest taxed country in the world. Were going to be among the lower. Its part of our plan to bring back our jobs.
We are going to lower taxes on American businesses from 35% to 15%. Its going to be a big engine. We will massively cut taxes for the middle class, and by the way, Hillary Clinton wants to raise your taxes and you know that, substantially. So were the highest taxed in the world, she wants to raise your taxes.
Same old story. We will unleash the power of American energy including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal. Our plan will end the EPA intrusion into your family farms and stop double taxation of a family farm at debt. We will cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations, billions and billions of dollars, and we have no idea what they do with that money.
I actually have a pretty good idea. Youre not going to like it. And use that money -- were going to use that money to rebuild the infrastructure of our country. And we will rebuild our inner cities. The African-American community, the Hispanic community have -- had such lies told to them. They live -- many, many people living in the inner cities of our country.
Theyre getting worse and worse. The crime is unbelievable. You cant walk to the store and get a loaf of bread. Often, you get shot. Chicago, thousands and thousands of shootings since January 1st. You read it. The murder rate in the United States is the highest its been in 45 years. The dishonest media doesnt tell you that stuff because they want you to like Obama.
They want you to think Obama is doing a good job, and hes not -- and hes not -- and hes not. So you live in the inner cities, youre African-American, youre Hispanic. The schools are no good. There are no jobs, and its totally unsafe. And I say, "I will fix it." What the hell do you have to lose? Im going to fix it. We are all going to fix.
Were going to fix it. Were going to bring back jobs. Were going to bring back safety. And were going to get really good education going. Theres tremendous potential, folks, in the inner cities, believe me, tremendous potential. We will become a rich nation again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
Hillary Clinton wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees flowing into our country. Unbelievable. Its unbelievable. Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism, and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities, and you dont even know where theyre going. Your government doesnt even know where theyre going.
When Im elected President, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. I have no choice. We have no choice. We have no choice. But were going to work because we all have hearts, and its a big problem, cause to a large extent by Obama and Hillary -- the migration, cause to a large extent.
ISIS was caused by them. They left a big vacuum. There was no ISIS when she first served as Secretary. There was no ISIS. She created -- now, she stands at the debate, "I will fight ISIS." Shes got no chance. Shes going to fight nobody. She wants to go home and go to sleep. Unbelievable. Shes going to fight ISIS.
So were going to build -- were going to build -- we are going to build safe havens. Were going to have the Gulf states who have nothing but money. Theyre going to pay for it. We have 20 trillion in debt. If its OK, Im not going to spend that because we have $20 trillion in debt. And we -- we still have to rebuild our country.
You know, its one thing like when you buy a company and its got some debt. We have 20 trillion in debt but the countrys a mess. The roads are bad, the bridges are bad, the schools are bad, the hospitals are bad, the tunnels are bad. Everythings bad. The military needs massive amounts of money. So we have all this horrible debt.
Its one thing if we had it and everything is in tippy top shape, Id like to say. You know, I like that property, its tippy top. I want them tippy top. But we have them and theyre a mess, and -- and yet we have 20 trillion, which is far too much. So were going to get it down and were going to rebuild our industries.
Were going to do -- we have so many things were going to be doing. Were going to be a rich nation again. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a great wall and Mexico will pay for the wall, 100% -- 100%. Mexico will pay. If you look at the incredible -- if you look at the incredible deficits we have with Mexico, its unbelievable.
What we have -- the cause of that wall is peanuts -- is peanuts compared to the numbers youre talking about on trade with Mexico, and the numbers with China, trade deficit. I mean, we will have a trade deficit with China of close to $500 million. We are going to lose  $800 billion.
What are we doing? You really ask, who are negotiating these deals? Where do these people come? You know where they come from? Theyre political hacks. Theyre political hacks. Youre dealing with the smartest people in the world. You have Chinese people, every -- you have from Japan, you have from . They put their smartest and the best, we put political hacks that dont know what theyre doing.
So we have . We have the greatest negotiators, we dont use them. We dont use them. We use political . Were going to get it straight now, folks. Starting tomorrow, go vote. Go vote. Right? My women. Hillary supports totally open borders. There goes your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered violently by an illegal immigrant, deported at least five times.
We will cancel all Federal funding to sanctuary cities. We will stop illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens, and dismantle every last criminal gang and cartel threatening our citizens. We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. There have been few times in our history where weve needed it more, few times.
North Carolina will be at the very center of this effort. With brand new advanced fighters flying from Seymour Johnson Air Force Base. Beautiful, beautiful -- beautiful, beautiful new fighters from Seymour Johnson. And were going to have more battalions. You know, the Marines are way, way off in terms of numbers.
You know that. I dont know, has there ever been? Yes, there have been. But rarely do we have times where we need this strong presence like now. The world hates us. The world hates us. So were going to increase -- thank you. Were going to increase Marine battalions at Camp Lejeune, and Ive been to Camp Lejeune, and I love Camp Lejeune.
And make major new investments where I was the other night right next to it. I guess like 25,000 or 27,000 people, at Fort Bragg. Great people. They -- those soldiers are tough. Couple of them shook my hand, it was like . Take it easy, fellas. They are tough cookies. They are strong, and they dont know how strong they are.
These are great peoples. And new military technologies will be researched and developed right here at the Research Triangle, right here. Im honored to have the endorsements of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. And every day, those numbers go up, big league -- big league.
And I ask some of the generals and admirals the other night by Fort Bragg, I -- I asked them, I said, "Fellows, let me ask you a question. They want to take over Mosul. Am I getting something wrong? Whatever happened to the element of surprise, fellas?" Could I -- Im talking to admirals now and generals, thats what they do. I do other things, but, you know, its cold like common sense.
You got to say, "Weve made a lot of right calls." I said, "Why is it that four months away from going into Mosul, theyre announcing we are going into Mosul. Were going into Mosul because we want to get the leaders of ISIS and this thing at Mosul." And then three months, theyre saying, "We are going in in three months to Mosul." And then were going in in two months . And every time I hear, I put my hands, I go like this.
I dont want to hear this, please. And as you know, theyve been met with tremendous resistance, much more than they would have been. And I guarantee you this, I cant say it with certainty, only about 99.9%. OK? Cant say 100. Nothings a 100%. Even our victory isnt 100%. But I -- its starting to look pretty close . Those numbers -- those numbers.
These guys are unhappy. Look at them. Theyre not happy. They are unhappy campers. Starting to look good. Starting to look good. But wouldnt it be nice if instead of announcing four months ago and three months ago, then they have less, two weeks ago, theyre going, "Next week, were getting ready to raid." The leaders all left.
Theyre gone. And the other people are putting up much more of a fight. Horrible. Theyre using human shields. Its a horrible situation. I mean, its hell. Its hell. But why dont we just shut up, do the job, have a news conference next. I could say, "We -- we had this wonderful victory." Wouldnt that be nice?
Where is General Douglas MacArthur? Where is General George Patton? You know where they are, theyre spinning in their grave right now. Theyre spinning in their grave when they watch whats going on. Hillary and our failed establishment have spent, listen to this, six trillion dollars on wars in the Middle East that we never win.
We just keep fighting and fighting. Its like a hose. The money just keeps pouring out. We never win. And now the Middle East is in worse shape by far than its ever been. We have the great migration, the whole thing. Theyve dragged -- thank you. I dont even want to look, Ill get myself -- I dont want to look.
Theyll make it -- I wont even say I love you too because theyre going to make it a major headline if I said that. Worlds most dishonest people. The worlds really dishonest people. They dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe. Shipped our jobs and wealth all over the world, and left our borders wide open at home.
Do you ever notice we send these incredible troops, so much death, so much injury, in order to create a border for our country that most people have never even heard of. And yet, we dont protect our own borders. Isnt it an incredible thing? That will change starting tomorrow. Because from now, on its going to be America first -- America first.
So just in summing up, to all Americans, I say its time for a real leadership and time for change. We have to have change. Can you imagine having Hillary for four years? Im being serious about that. I wouldnt want to watch the news every night. I mean, look at -- look at what shes done with e-mails as an example.
I mean, did you ever see a mess like this? Did you ever see -- of course, the FBI, the director was obviously under tremendous pressure. So they went through 650,000 e-mails in eight days. Yeah, right. So sad whats going on. And she still deleted them after getting a subpoena from Congress. I mean, thats a crime.
What happened? Thats a crime. You dont even need the new stuff. She shouldnt be allowed to run. Shouldnt be allowed to run. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. And Hillary is going to raise your taxes substantially.
Were going to save and protect your Social Security and Medicare. And Hillary is going to cut your Social Security and really injure Medicare. Thats whats going to happen. We will eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation. Well cancel every illegal Obama executive order. By the way, a man that loves this state.
Its his birthday today, Billy Graham, 98. The father of Franklin. Billy Graham, what a great one, right? 98 years old. He is a fantastic man. Franklins a fantastic man and just so wonderful to have support of people like that. Were going to protect religious liberty, rebuild our military, and take care of our great veterans.
Were going to take care of our veterans. We will provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We move our education local. We will support the men and women. These are great people. The men and women of law enforcement. Were going to save our Second Amendment. And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
This sounds so good to me because I started this on June 16th of last year because I couldnt stand when I looked at what was going on with our country, I couldnt stand it. I couldnt stand it. Coming down the escalator, right, with Melania -- coming down that escalator. June 16th of last year, and they were all saying, all the dishonest pundits.
Actually a few of them thought I had a hell of a chance if you one of the smarter ones. But they were all saying, "But hes not involved with pol -- ", Ive been involved in politics all my life, on the other side, but Ive been involved. But we had 17 people. By the way, one of the great people are here tonight, Mike Huckabee.
Where is Mike Huckabee?  Hes such -- is he here someplace? He is here. He is so great. Mike, wherever you are, come on out because you are great. I just saw. But we had 17 people of great talent. Ben Carson endorsed us. Mike -- Mike endorsed us. Tremendous -- I mean, very talented people. And one by one by one, and they used to sit to say, well -- I remember we were down to like 13 or 14. And one state, I got 49%. And one of these clowns said, "He has not reached the 50% mark." I got 49% with like 14 people.
How do you get 49% with 14 people? And they said, "He hasnt reached the 50% mark." Now, theyre very dishonest people. So we ended up with 17 people, right? Dont forget, thats hard, because nobody else ever had a feel that big or that violent -- or that violent. Now we have a couple that didnt endorse and thats too bad.
You know, they signed a pledge, they didnt honor it. But -- but -- no, but for the most part -- no, for the most part, they were very honorable. But it was rough. They said it was the roughest primary ever. I would say this is the roughest election. Do you know the NFL ratings are way down. You know why?
Because everyones watching this. Its actually tougher. Its actually tougher. Everyones watching. The NFL ratings are way down. And a lot of people say its because of this. So you had 17 people. It came down. But we got -- and this attribute to everybody in this room. We got the highest number of voters in the history of the Republican primary system.
Thats a long time. Thats a long time. You know, starting with honest Abe Lincoln, right? Its a long time. I got more than honest Abe. Thats probably the only thing I did better than honest Abe. Honest Abe was pretty -- he was pretty good. So heres the beauty. You have one day until election. And its not even one day, you got half a day to make every dream youve ever dreamed for your country and for your family to come true.
You have one magnificent chance. And honestly, in four years, its -- its over, folks. There has never been a movement like this. Even these dishonest people in the media say it. There has never. Bill OReilly, he said, its the single greatest political phenomenon that hes witnessed in his life. Its a pretty good cycle.
But others have said it. Others have said it. Others have said it. And its not going to happen again. Well be able to happen again. Four years, itll never happen. So you got to get out there, you got to vote. Got to get out. Somebody said, "What youve done has never been done before. It doesnt matter if you win or lose." I said, "Believe me, it matters." No, they said that.
Itll be down in the history books. I said, "You know what, youre maybe right about that. But if we dont win, I will consider this the single greatest waste of time, energy." Wow, do I -- you need energy for this. The single greatest waste of time, energy, and money. Ill have over $100 million. Thats a lot of money that I dont take in from the special interests because I dont need it. Thats nice.
And we have the biggest Internet, you know, the small donors -- the small donors are giving us money at record clips. I think we had 82 million and then we had close to 100 million. And it comes in, and I think the average was like $61 each. I love those people. Those are people that love this country. And usually, thats for the Democrats.
You know, in all fairness, thats usually for the Democrats to do that. But were beating everybody. Nobodys seen anything like what were doing. So we dont want to blow it. We dont want to waste it. Go vote. Go vote. Because believe me, if we dont win, all of us -- honestly, weve all wasted our time.
Ill be on it because nothings going to happen. They may say good things about us as a movement. Well mean a damn thing, folks. You got to go out. We got to vote and we got to win. Change. Change. So you have one magnificent chance to beat the corrupt system that youre witnessing today and to deliver justice for every forgotten man and woman and child in this nation.
Do not let this opportunity slip away. Were fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests. And were fighting -- were fighting to bring us all together as Americans. Were a very divided country. People dont realize. We are an unbelievably divided country.
Were going to come together. Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag. Just imagine. Im asking you to dream big because with your vote, we are just one day away from the change youve been waiting for for your entire life.
