Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Washington, DC|September 9, 2016
Thank you very much. Oh Jon. Jon is such a great actor and such a great person. He is such a great person.
And hes really been with me a long time in a lot of different ways. Hes been incredible, so I just want to thank Jon and I hope he makes another movie very quickly because I love his movies. In particular I wanted to thank our host, Tony Perkins, for his years of leadership, and we know all about that.
And we all express our support for Tony as he deals with the aftermath of the terrible floods in Louisiana where two weeks ago I spent some time and I saw some incredible, incredible people.  Right. Thank you. Amazing. Amazing people. One of the greatest privileges of my journey has been the time Ive spent with the evangelical community and the support they gave me in those primaries was absolutely incredible. I have to tell you.  All across the nation. A lot of people said, I wonder if Donald will get the evangelicals?" I got the evangelicals. Applause] Ill across the nation. A lot of people said Im gonna make it up to you, too. You watch. There are no more decent voters, or selfless people, than our Christian brothers and sisters here in the United States.
So true. Ive witnessed that incredible generosity all across this land.  -- gotten to know so many people. I --  -- during my trip to Louisiana where Christian volunteers raced to help their fellow citizens in need.
Franklin Graham is an example. He brought the most incredible people and equipment to Louisiana.  And he didnt want anything for it. Hes a great man.
Its that spirit of giving that we will need to rebuild Louisiana and to rebuild this country, which is in serious, serious trouble.  Yet, our media culture often mocks and demeans people of faith, and you understand that. All the time I hear from concerned parents how much harder it is for a Christian family to raise their children in todays media environment. It is right, isnt it? It is right.
Not even close. Your values of love, charity and faith built this nation.  So how can it be that our media treats people of faith so poorly? One of the reasons is that our politicians have really abandoned you to a large extent. And Hillary Clinton, you can forget about her. Laughter] So let me state this right upfront. A Trump administration, our Christian heritage will be cherished, protected, defended like youve never seen before.  Believe me. I believe and you believe it and you know it.
You know it. And that includes religious liberty, remember. Remember. I recently had a chance to visit a church in Detroit. Great Faith Ministries International. Stand up if youre a member, thats good. That was a great -- that was an amazing experience.  And the bishop, what a great guy.
In my remarks, I spoke --  -- about how African American church, and this is all across the country, for centuries have been the conscience of our nation. Their unbreakable faith and spirit overcame some of the most difficult periods in our history, leading us all to a better future. Its very true, amazing. This was such an amazing experience.
This is the power of faith. Its the power to heal, its the power to unite, its the power to make all of us live better lives, all of us.  Our nation today is divided. Nobody likes to say it, but were living in a very, very divided nation.
It will be our faith in God, in His teachings, in each other that will lead us back to unity.  Each of us here today has a role to play in bringing our country together, united in common purpose and in common values. So lets talk today about some of the things, and these are great things, that we can do together to create the American future for everybody, not just a certain group of people, but for everybody. The first thing we have to do is give our churches their voice back, its been taken away. Applause] The Johnson Amendment has blocked our pastors and ministers and others from speaking their minds from their own pulpits. If they want to talk about Christianity, if they want to preach, if they want to talk about politics, theyre unable to do so. If they want to do it, they take a tremendous risk that they lose their tax-exempt status. All religious leaders should be able to freely express their thoughts and feelings on religious matters.
And I will repeal the Johnson Amendment if I am elected your President. I promise.  So important. Thank you.
Thats so important. And I must tell you from the heart, this started -- a building of mine in Manhattan, I had 50 pastors in a big conference room. And we actually had 50 pastors, two Rabbis, a couple of priests, we were all talking. And we were there for two hours.
And at the end, it was a love fest. We all agreed it was like a love fest. And I said to them -- we were high up in a building on Fifth Avenue. And I said to them, Id love your support.
And I know when I can get support. Im quite sophisticated. And I know they wanted to give me their total support, 100 percent, just like I had in the primaries. And I said, I really would like your support.
And they didnt really know what I was talking about. And I said, whats going on here? They said, well, sir, we cant do that because we would be violating the laws. And I said, whats the punishment? Well, we could lose our tax-exempt status. Which, of course, is a massive penalty.
I said, tell me about this. And we sat down and they talked about it. When did it happen? 1954 or so, Lyndon Johnson was having problems. Powerful guy.
I actually, as his own way, have to gain respect for what he was able to do. Can you imagine that this man singlehandedly -- he was having problems with churches. And there was a church in Houston that was giving him a hard time, maybe for a very good reason. And he put in an amendment that basically stopped our great pastors and ministers and others from talking under the penalty of losing their tax-exempt status.
So we were looking down onto the sidewalk, and there were people walking on the sidewalk. And I said, so, folks, what youre telling me is those people walking way, way down there on the sidewalk have really more power than you do because theyre allowed to express their feelings and thoughts openly and without penalty. And one of the pastors, who I knew very well -- and these are powerful people. These are strong people with magnificent voices and just -- and magnificent hearts, much more importantly.
They looked at me and they said, thats actually right, they have more power than we do. Were not allowed to express. And thats when I said we have to start thinking about this. And I thought about it.
And then we had a large group of pastors again. I said, I have thought about it. If I become President, we are going to knock out the Johnson Amendment. We are going to do that.
And its not going to be hard.  Its not going to be hard. When you -- when you think from the standpoint of political, you have more than men -- lets say men are 50 percent, women are 50 percent. Youre much more than 50 percent added together.
And I actually believe thats one of the reasons why you havent seen Christianity and other religions within the United States going like a rocket ship, like our polls have been going in the last four weeks, a rocket ship. Right?  I really believe that. Because youre great people. The people that you rely on Sunday and all during the week, theyve been stopped from talking and speaking by a law and were going to get rid of that law -- its going to get rid of -- were going to get rid of it so fast.
And Im so proud to say, honestly I dont want to take credit --  -- but you had 50 people in that first meeting and many more in the second, I am so proud, I was just telling this to Tony to say, that was my idea. I figure its the only way Im getting to heaven so this is going to very...  The only way. So were going to get rid of it and were going to let your great people speak and youre going to see something happen thats going to be very, very good, OK? So important.
I hope -- which means, you have to get out and vote. On November 8, you cannot -- you didnt vote four years ago, you didnt vote. You didnt, well you did, a few of you did.  Believe me I know.
I look at the stats. You didnt vote. But this time you really have -- and this is your last chance, this is it. I mean well never have this opportunity again.
So I hope you can get every one of your friends and just get up your family and your friends and get out and vote, OK? November 8.  Thank you. And if you do, were going to win by a lot. Thats not going to even be a close election.
If you dont, could be a very unhappy November 8. Were also going to repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare.  Which gives the government control over the lives of every day citizens and the numbers are horrendous. Your premiums are going up by 50, 60, 70 percent.
The deductible is so high you never get to use it unless you are going to  a very long and very complex bad period. Very, very long. It is a disaster. Its a disaster and everybody knows that, that its going to die of its own weight anyway.
But were going to get rid of it and were going to replace it with some great, great alternatives. A much better healthcare at a much lower price.  Hillary Clinton wants to have completely government run healthcare, which would be a disaster for the liberties and freedoms of all America, this is what she wants, thats what shes aiming at. Thats what Obama wanted, he didnt quite there.
But he got this and you see how bad this has been. One of the biggest issues in this race is going to be the issue of school choice.  And I cant possibly emphasize this enough, millions of poor and disadvantaged students are trapped in failing schools. This education crisis afflicts all communities but none more so than the African American community, none.
The Democratic Party has run the inner cities of America for 50, 60, 70 years, some cases over 100 years. Over 100 years. Their policies and their politics and in particular, the politics of people like Hillary Clinton have produced only poverty, joblessness and rising crime. When she was running for the Senate in New York State, she said she was gonna produce jobs, jobs, jobs, in upstate New York.
Its a disaster. She could have produced jobs. Big thing. Jobs.
Were gonna bring back jobs. Gonna -- catastrophe. Weve lost tens of thousands of jobs -- she never did a thing. It was all talk, no action.
Just like what shes doing right now is all talk and no action. Shell talk and talk and nothing will happen, only bad will happen. But you just have to ask the people in upstate New York -- she won because of them, and she produced absolutely nothing. Jobs left.
Its today one of the worst, one of the most depressing places in this country. So just remember that when you hear her talking about jobs. I know jobs. She doesnt know jobs.
That I can tell you.  I have outlined a new civil rights agenda for our time. The right to a safe community, a great education and a secure job. And I say to African-American parents, I say to Hispanic-American parents, and I say it with great respect, our inner cities are a disaster.
Crime, no jobs, education is the worst, in many cases almost worldwide bad and in many cases actually worldwide bad. I say with great respect, what do you have to lose? It cant get any worse. It cant get any worse. You choose Donald Trump, Im gonna fix the problem.
Youre gonna have safety, youre gonna have good education, were gonna get jobs because were gonna bring our jobs back. Mexicos taken our jobs. So many other places have taken our jobs. What Chinas doing to us is horrible.
Well have jobs. What have you got to lose? Im gonna fix it. Im gonna fix it.  School choice is at the center of this civil rights agenda.
And my goal is to provide every single inner city child in American that is trapped in a failing government school the freedom to attend the school of their choice. Competition and the schools will get better and better and better.  And if that means a private school, a religious school or a charter school or a magnet school -- school choice also means that parents can home school their children.  Hundred percent. Applause] Hillary Clinton opposes school choice because shes controlled totally, totally, like a puppet, by special interests. Her policies will force millions of African-American and Hispanic children to remain stuck in failed government schools, leading to higher unemployment and more poverty. The poverty levels in this country nobody will believe. Nobody will believe.
My plan will break the government monopoly and make schools compete to provide the best services for our children, including every African-American and Hispanic child in this country. Every single one of them.  This proposal begins with a $20 billion block grant from the federal government to states to pursue school choice programs. However - thats good, right?  However, because 90 percent of education spending is at the state level, I will campaign to get the states to reallocate another $110 billion of their education budgets to school choice programs.
If we do this, that would mean $12,000 in school choice funds for every disadvantaged student in America. What a difference this is going to make. The money will follow the student to the public, private, or religious school that is best for them and their family. In so many ways youre going to have a choice.
My administration will partner with the leadership of any inner city, anybody, anybody, in the inner cities of America willing to run a pilot program -- and there will be a lot of them -- to provide school choice to every child in that community. In Baltimore, for instance, that would mean more than $15,000 in funds available per student. As your President, I will be the biggest cheerleader for school choice youve ever seen.  This means a lot of me because I know it can turn things around.
Again, the education cant get worse. Common Core, were going to end it. Well bring in education . I will fight for every child in this country who deserve better futures.
The African-American community has heard my message that I am going to make the inner city safe again, and Im going to bring back jobs, and Im going to bring back the great education. Dont be surprised -- remember this, November eighth. Dont be surprised, because we have been given a lot of support over the last three or four weeks, if on November eighth I get more African-American and Hispanic votes than anyone thought possible about a month ago. You see whats going on.
Theyre starting -- people are starting to hear about this and they say, wow, wow. Theyre liking it. And, again, cant get any worse. Its going to get a lot better, but only if I do.
They cant do it. The -- the Democrats they have what theyve done is incredible. And Hillary Clinton will be absolutely more of the same, rigid. Itll never change.
Remember, 100 years, 70 years, 50, its not going to change. Not going to happen. Now lets talk about another issue that will define the future of this country for generations to come. The United States Supreme Court. Applause] Earlier this year we lost the great Justice Antonin Scalia. The next President will not only have to fill this seat, but as many as four others. It could even be -- I mean we could end up with a total of five judges by one President. It would be record-setting.
Probably be three. Could be four, could even be five. And you pick the wrong people, you have a country that is no longer your country. It will be a disaster.
One of the most important issues frankly, other than maybe defense -- because were going to build up our military. Its so depleted. Were going to take care of our vets. Were going to protect your Second Amendment.
So many things. But one of the most important -- some people think its actually the most important -- is the filling of the seats United States Supreme Court. You see whats happening right now. Essentially its four and four and you see what -- how bad it is.
Were going to pick great judges. Ive already put a list of 11 federalist society highly recommended. Got uniform great on these 11 people. And we are going to put truly great people -- maybe we use Judge Scalia as the ultimate example of what we are looking for, OK. Applause] This will determine whether or not we remain a constitutional republic, frankly. Thats whats going to happen. I have pledged to appoint judges who uphold the constitution, to protect your religious liberty and apply the law as written.  We reject judges who rewrite the Constitution to impose their own personal views on 300 million-plus Americans.
Not going to have that. Ive made public a list of judges, as I said, that will guide my selection process. Hillary Clinton has refused to provide such a list, and we brought it up. Lets see a list.
If you ever saw the list, you would walk out of here not feeling very well.  Because she knows the extremist judges she would pick would be rejected by the overwhelming majority of the American public, theyd be rejected. Clintons judicial picks would allow her to completely take over American healthcare, the American economy and Americans religious liberty. Not to mention your Second Amendment, which is on very thin ice right now, as you know, because of the fact that were four-four.
If they even pick one judge whos wrong, you can probably, as you know it, you can kiss the Second Amendment goodbye. And we dont want to see that. Another issue in this race of great importance to everyone in this room is the issue, of course, of national security. Just today, it was announced that North Korea performed its fifth nuclear test, its forth since Hillary Clinton became secretary of State.
Its just one more massive failure from a failed secretary of State.  She failed at everything. Her policies have also put Iran onto a path of nuclear weapons. And I have to say, made them overnight an absolute power.
They were dying three years ago. The sanctions were choking them. They would have fallen, but Obama didnt support people that would have taken over, and I think in this case, probably would have taken over the right way. They had no support.
But look at whats happened to Iran in such a short period of time. But remember the ransom payments, remember, it was $400 million two weeks ago. But then they made a mistake. This is cash.
Remember, they said they paid cash because they couldnt open a bank account, there was no way of sending it into a checking account?  All lies, just like Obamacare was a big lie, remember? You can use your plan, you can use your doctors, 27 times, right? Twenty- seven times. Use your doctors, use your plan. It turned out to be a lie, its all a lie. Its all a big lie.
Its a rigged system and its a lie. And Ill tell you what -- Ill tell you what. The $400 million, for those that havent been reading the papers over the last two days, turned out to be $1.7 billion in cash, cash. And I actually said -- they said that moneys going to be used for terror.
I said, no they dont need it for terror, theyve got $150 billion. Thats in addition to the $150 billion we gave them back. I said they dont need it. This is going into their Swiss accounts and going into their accounts.
Theyre not going to use it for terror, they have plenty of money for terror. Think of it, $1.7 billion cash. Massive big vats of cash. You saw them.
Cartons. Never saw anything like it. Ive seen a lot of cash.  Never saw anything like this -- $1.7 billion.
Can you imagine these guys? Planes get -- they stop. Remember they wouldnt give back the hostages, they waited there for hours and hours and Obama kept saying, No Just another lie. But can you imagine these people sitting there and they see $1.7 billion in cash. Oy, oy, oy, they think were stupid.
They think were stupid. They wont be thinking it for long.  At the same time, ISIS is hunting down and exterminating what it calls the nation of the cross. ISIS is carrying out a genocide against Christians in the Middle East.
We cannot let this evil continue. Cant let it. ISIS must be destroyed. Have to.
Have no choice.  To defeat ISIS, we must use military warfare, but also cyber warfare, financial warfare and ideological warfare. Its a whole different ballgame today than it was 50 years ago and 200 years ago. Different world.
We must also establish a bipartisan goal in the United States and an international goal with our allies of defeating radical Islamic terrorism.  Words that our president wont use and words that Hillary Clinton wont use. Just like we won the Cold War by identifying our enemy and building a consensus to guide a long-term strategy, so too must we do the same with Islamic terrorism. By the way, President Obama has allowed Syrian refugees to pour into our country at unbelievable rates and Hillary Clinton wants to allow 550 percent more.
But its almost impossible to get a Christian in from Syria. They take others, but they dont take Christians. Very rare, very rare. So I said that we need to make safe zones in the region.
We want to take care of people. But we absolutely cannot allow this potential tremendous threat to continue and we have to stop this. This is going to be potentially a catastrophe for our country. Its from within.
This could be the all-time great Trojan Horse. This could be it. You ever notice on the -- you look at the migration trail and you see people with cell phones. Cell phones.
And some of the cell phones have the ISIS flag printed on them. And some of them have things far worse than that. Scenes far worse than that. So it was the failed policies, you have to remember, of Hillary Clinton and Obama that unleashed ISIS in the first place.
If they did the right thing, you wouldnt be talking about ISIS right now. Now she wants to get rid of them, oh were going to get rid of them. She tells them already, there will be no boots on the ground. Now even if you even dont want boots on the ground, you dont want to say it.
Dont say it. Now theyre saying oh, I hope she wins, oh boy would they dream of having her as president, can you imagine? They dream about it every night, having Hillary Clinton. But even if you believe it -- and I can understand that, no boots on the ground, I can understand, you dont say it. Let them think theyre going to go through hell, dont say it. Applause] Can you imagine the great General Douglas MacArthur, can you imagine the great General George Patton or one of our great generals that we have today, General Flynn, whos here someplace, I love General Flynn.  But can you imagine these people saying, I mean theyre basically giving out the strategy. There will be no boots on the ground. If you dont want that, I fully understand.
Dont say it. Dont say it. Can you imagine MacArthur saying, were going to fight the enemy and were going to move our troops in about a month. Were going to hit from behind. Laughter] Were going to hit them from the front but -- and everything they say turns out to be true. You know I hate to say this because we have a lot of evangelicals in this room, but maybe we shouldnt be so honest when it comes to military strategy, does that make sense?  Hope I didnt lose your vote for saying that.  Just look at what her policies have left us with in Iraq, Syria and Libya. The problem is Hillary Clinton is trigger happy.
She really is, shes trigger happy and yet she says, no boots. Which is sort of -- probably will be boots, you know, probably will turn out to be another disaster. Her tenure has brought us only war and destruction and death. Shes just too quick to intervene, invade or to push for regime change with people we dont even know who they are.
And they take over and theyre far worse. This creates the power vacuums that are filled by terrorists and groups like ISIS. My administration on the other hand, will work with any country that is willing to partner with us to defeat ISIS and halt radical Islamic terrorism. And by the way, that includes Russia.
If they want to join us on knocking out ISIS, that is just fine as far as Im concerned. Its a very imperfect world and you cant always choose your friends. Life, but you can never fail to recognize your enemies and we have some real enemies. Unfortunately for our country, our enemies probably hacked into Hillary Clintons e-mails. These are the same e-mails she destroyed after receiving a federal subpoena, whats that?  Using software in order to bleach the e-mail so you can never, ever see then.
She even mysteriously lost 13 different phones before the FBI got them and many were destroyed with a hammer.  Did anybody ever hit a hammer -- you know, maybe two or three people. But they were just released from prison, those two people.  Can you believe this? Destroyed them with a hammer.
The old- fashioned way, I guess.  The other night, in the commander-in-chief forum -- did anybody see that? How did I do?  Good. Well, we have a big debate coming up. Who knows whats going to happen there, but I will say every poll has me winning big league the commander-in-chief.
We had...  The polls came out after that event and we won big league. Now, we have a debate coming up. I dont imagine any of you are going to be watching the debate. Laughter] I wont, I promise. Hillary Clinton answered questions on her e- mails horribly. Thats why she lost, thats why she did so poorly, she was terrible. She was -- honestly, I shouldnt be saying this.
She was terrible.  She keeps talking about the e-mails, every time she talks about them, she talks about them differently. It seems each week -- true -- she has like a different answer. But there can be no answer when she deletes 33,000 e-mails, bleaches them so they can never be recovered, an unheard of practice, hammers them into total silence.
You know whats happening. You know whats happening. I always say getting away with that will be the single greatest accomplishment of her career. Its true.
Its true.  So her answers were bad. They were bad. And a lot of people said it was so totally dishonest.
And you know, she was blaming Matt Lauer. I thought Matt Lauer did a very good job. I mean, his questions to me were very tough. But the gentleman who stood up and said, honestly, you should be in prison for what you did.
To me, that was the tough one. That was the tough -- that was a tough question. Well, sort of a question in the form of a statement, right?  Clinton is unfit to be our president for many reasons.  True. Audience Chants "Lock Her Up"] Shes unfit for many reasons, the biggest of which is her judgment. Its just so bad. Its time to restore honesty and integrity to our government, we have to do it.  And one more issue -- final issue I wanted to discuss today is the economy and helping those in need.
There is no more charitable group in this country than Christians and all of us -- true -- and all of us here today determined to lift suffering Americans out of poverty. Were going to do it. With -- a lot of other people are going to help. As your president, I will pursue a complete reform of our economy to bring back millions of new jobs into our country, millions of new jobs.
Weve lost our jobs like were a bunch of babies. Theyve gone to other countries. Theyve gone to Mexico. Theyve gone to many other countries.
Chinas taking massive advantage of us. Its all so easy, believe me. Its all so easy. That includes we will be doing massive tax cuts for working families and for businesses. Applause] It includes, very importantly, the elimination of all needless job-killing regulations.  It includes lifting the restrictions on America energy, which is under siege. I will also renegotiate NAFTA. And if they dont want to renegotiate it so it becomes a two-way highway, not just a one-way highway out of the United States for our companies and our jobs, we will terminate NAFTA.
Believe me.  Well stand up to China and were going to fight for every last job. Its going to be America first and its going to be the American worker first.  Crucially, I will also fight for the American family and American family values.
The family must be at the center of any anti-poverty agenda. Has to be.  Thank you. Our country just lost one of the great champions for the American family, Phyllis Schlafly, great woman, really great woman. Applause] We send our thoughts and prayers to her loved ones. I will be going to her funeral tomorrow in St. Louis.  Phyllis fought very hard to the very end for a free and prosperous America.
She understood that to be truly united as a country, we cant simply turn to government or to politicians. The bedrock of our unity is the realization that were all brothers and sisters created by the same God. Phyllis understood that. Phyllis understood. Applause] And by the way, Phyllis endorsed me a long time ago when it wasnt necessarily something that was so easy to do. And she was incredible. She was so brave. She endorsed me, and that was not the thing to do at the time.
People said, Trump?" She said But I will tell you, Phyllis endorsed me at a time when it wasnt necessarily the thing to do, even the popular thing to do. And I will never forget that. That had a huge impact. She was a great, great powerful woman with a tremendous heart.
And I look forward to being with her family tomorrow because you really -- thats a celebration. She was 92 years old.  Were all equal and we all come from the same creator. If we remember that simple fact, then our future is truly limitless.
There is nothing we as Americans cant do. Theres a biblical verse that Ive often read and I want to repeat it again because I think it is so important to what were trying to achieve right now for our country. Its from First John Chapter Four. No one has ever seen God So true.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one flag.  Its time to stop quibbling over the smallest words and time to start dreaming about the great adventures that lie ahead for our country. This is my promise to all of you. Starting in 2017, we will be one American nation.
Its time to break our ties with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new American future. Have to do it. Together, we will make America believe again, we will make America united again and we will make America great again. Thank you much and God bless you, thank you.
