Donald Trump|The New York Times: Interview with Donald Trump|November 23, 2016
DONALD J. TRUMP, President-elect of the United States: O.K.
I am, I am.
There was a big thing about the bust that was removed out of the Oval Office.
I am, indeed. I am.
I appreciate it, too.
O.K. Well, I just appreciate the meeting and I have great respect for The New York Times. Tremendous respect. Its very special. Always has been very special. I think Ive been treated very rough. Its well out there that Ive been treated extremely unfairly in a sense, in a true sense. I wouldnt only complain about The Times. I would say The Times was about the roughest of all. You could make the case The Washington Post was bad, but every once in a while Id actually get a good article. Not often, Dean, but every once in awhile.
Look, I have great respect for The Times, and Id like to turn it around. I think it would make the job I am doing much easier. Were working very hard. We have great people coming in. I think youll be very impressed with the names. Well be announcing some very shortly.
Everybody wanted to do this. People are giving up tremendous careers in order to be subject to you folks and subject to a lot of other folks. But theyre giving up a lot. I mean some are giving up tremendous businesses in order to sit for four or maybe eight or whatever the period of time is. But I think were going to see some tremendous talent, tremendous talent coming in. We have many people for every job. I mean no matter what the job is, we have many incredible people. I think, Reince, you can sort of just confirm that. The quality of the people is very good.
Were trying very hard to get the best people. Not necessarily people that will be the most politically correct people, because that hasnt been working. So we have really experts in the field. Some are known and some are not known, but theyre known within their field as being the best. Thats very important to me.
You know, Ive been given a great honor. Its been very tough. Its been 18 months of brutality in a true sense, but we won it. We won it pretty big. The final numbers are coming out. Or I guess theyre coming out. Michigans just being confirmed. But the numbers are coming out far beyond what anybodys wildest expectation was. I dont know if it was us, I mean, we were seeing the kind of crowds and kind of, everything, the kind of enthusiasm we were getting from the people.
As you probably know, I did many, many speeches that last four-week period. I was just telling Arthur that I went around and did speeches in the pretty much 11 different places, that were, the massive crowds we were getting. If we had a stadium that held — and most of you, many of you were there — that held 20,000 people, wed have 15,000 people outside that couldnt get in.
So we came up with a good system — we put up the big screens outside with a very good loudspeaker system and very few people left. I would do, during the last month, two or three a day. Thats a lot. Because thats not easy when you have big crowds. Those speeches, thats not an easy way of life, doing three a day. Then I said the last two days, I want to do six and seven. And Im not sure anybody has ever done that. But we did six and we did seven and the last one ended at 1 oclock in the morning in Michigan.
And we had 31,000 people, 17,000 or 18,000 inside and the rest outside. This massive place in Grand Rapids, I guess. And it was an incredible thing. And I left saying: How do we lose Michigan? I dont think we can lose Michigan.
And the reason I did that, it was set up only a little while before — because we heard that day that Hillary was hearing that theyre going to lose Michigan, which hasnt been lost in 38 years. Or something. But 38 years. And they didnt want to lose Michigan. So they went out along with President Obama and Michelle, Bill and Hillary, they went to Michigan late that, sort of late afternoon and I said, Lets go to Michigan.
It wasnt on the schedule. So I finished up in New Hampshire and at 10 oclock I went to Michigan. We got there at 12 oclock. We started speaking around 12:45, actually, and we had 31,000 people and I said, really, I mean, there are things happening. But we saw it everywhere.
So we felt very good. we had great numbers. And we thought were going to win. We thought we were going to win Florida. We thought we were going to win North Carolina. We did easily, pretty easily. We thought strongly we were going to win Pennsylvania. The problem is nobody had won it and it was known, as you know, the great state that always got away. Every Republican thought they were going to win Pennsylvania for 38 years and they just couldnt win it.
And I thought we were going to win it. And we won it, we won it, you know, relatively easily, we won it by a number of points. Florida we won by 180,000 — was that the number, 180?
More than 180,000 voted, and votes are still coming in from the military, which we are getting about 85 percent of.
So we won that by a lot of votes and, you know, we had a great victory. We had a great victory. I think it would have been easier because I see every once in awhile somebody says, Well, the popular vote. Well, the popular vote would have been a lot easier, but its a whole different campaign. I would have been in California, I would have been in Texas, Florida and New York, and we wouldnt have gone anywhere else. Which is, I mean Id rather do the popular vote from the standpoint — Id think wed do actually as well or better — its a whole different campaign. Its like, if youre a golfer, its like match play versus stroke play. Its a whole different game.
But I think the popular vote would have been easier in a true sense because youd go to a few places. I think thats the genius of the Electoral College. I was never a fan of the Electoral College until now.
Until now. I guess now I like it for two reasons. What it does do is it gets you out to see states that youll never see otherwise. Its very interesting. Like Maine. I went to Maine four times. I went to Maine 2 for one, because everybody was saying you can get to 269 but there is no path to 270. We learned that was false because we ended up with what, three-something.
Ive got to get, weve got to get Michigan in.
But there is no path to 270, you have to get the one in Maine, so we kept going back to Maine and we did get the one in Maine. We kept going to Maine 2, and we went to a lot of states that you wouldnt spend a lot of time in and it does get you — we actually went to about 22 states, whereas if youre going for popular vote, youd probably go to four, or three, it could be three. You wouldnt leave New York. Youd stay in New York and youd stay in California. So theres a certain genius about it. And I like it either way. But its sort of interesting.
TBut we had an amazing period of time. I got to know the country, we have a great country, were a great, great people, and the enthusiasm was really incredible. The Los Angeles Times had a poll which was interesting because I was always up in that poll. They had something that is, I guess, a modern-day technique in polling, it was called enthusiasm. They added an enthusiasm factor and my people had great enthusiasm, and Hillarys people didnt have enthusiasm. And in the end she didnt get the African-American vote and we ended up close to 15 points, as you know. We started off at one, we ended up with almost 15. And more importantly, a lot of people didnt show up, because the African-American community liked me. They liked what I was saying.
TSo they didnt necessarily vote for me, but they didnt show up, which was a big problem that she had. I ended up doing very well with women, which was — which I never understood why I was doing poorly, because wed go to the rallies and wed have so many women holding up signs, "Women for Trump." But I kept reading polls saying that Im not doing well with women. I think whoever is doing it here would say that we did very well with women, especially certain women.
I just saw that today.
I dont think so, Dean. First of all, I dont want to energize the group. Im not looking to energize them. I dont want to energize the group, and I disavow the group. They, again, I dont know if its reporting or whatever. I dont know where they were four years ago, and where they were for Romney and McCain and all of the other people that ran, so I just dont know, I had nothing to compare it to.
But its not a group I want to energize, and if they are energized I want to look into it and find out why.
What we do want to do is we want to bring the country together, because the country is very, very divided, and thats one thing I did see, big league. Its very, very divided, and Im going to work very hard to bring the country together.
I mean, Im somebody that really has gotten along with people over the years. It was interesting, my wife, I went to a big event about two years ago. Just after I started thinking about politics.
And were walking in and some people were cheering and some people were booing, and she said, you know, People have never booed for you.
Ive never had a person boo me, and all of a sudden people are booing me. She said, thats never happened before. And, its politics. You know, all of a sudden they think Im going to be running for office, and Im a Republican, lets say. So its something that I had never experienced before and I said, Those people are booing, and she said, Yup. Theyd never booed before. But now they boo. You know, it was a group and another group was going the opposite.
No, I want to bring the country together. Its very important to me. Were in a very divided country. In many ways divided.
Well, there was a report that somebody said that Im not enthused about it. Look, I want to move forward, I dont want to move back. And I dont want to hurt the Clintons. I really dont.
She went through a lot. And suffered greatly in many different ways. And I am not looking to hurt them at all. The campaign was vicious. They say it was the most vicious primary and the most vicious campaign. I guess, added together, it was definitely the most vicious; probably, I assume you sold a lot of newspapers.
I would imagine. I would imagine. Im just telling you, Maggie, Im not looking to hurt them. I think theyve been through a lot. Theyve gone through a lot.
Im really looking … I think we have to get the focus of the country into looking forward.
No, but the question was asked.
No, no, but its just not something that I feel very strongly about. I feel very strongly about health care. I feel very strongly about an immigration bill that I think even the people in this room can be happy. You know, youve been talking about immigration bills for 50 years and nothings ever happened.
I feel very strongly about an immigration bill thats fair and just and a lot of other things. There are a lot of things I feel strongly about. Im not looking to look back and go through this. This was a very painful period. This was a very painful election with all of the email things and all of the foundation things and all of the everything that they went through and the whole country went through. This was a very painful period of time. I read recently where it was, it was, theyre saying, they used to say it was Lincoln against whoever and none of us were there to see it. And there arent a lot of recordings of that, right?
But the fact is that there were some pretty vicious elections; they say this was, this was the most.
They say it was definitely the most vicious primary. And I think its very important to look forward.
I dont think they will be disappointed. I think I will explain it, that we have to, in many ways save our country.
Because our countrys really in bad, big trouble. We have a lot of trouble. A lot of problems. And one of the big problems, I talk about, divisiveness. I think that a lot of people will appreciate … Im not doing it for that reason. Im doing it because its time to go in a different direction. There was a lot of pain, and I think that the people that supported me with such enthusiasm, where they will show up at 1 in the morning to hear a speech.
It was actually Election Day, they showed up at, so that was essentially Election Day. Yeah, I think theyd understand very completely.
I read your article. Some will be even better because actually like Doral is a little bit off … so itll be perfect.  He doesnt say that. He just says that the ones that are near the water will be gone, but Doral will be in great shape.
Im looking at it very closely, Tom. Ill tell you what. I have an open mind to it. Were going to look very carefully. Its one issue thats interesting because there are few things where theres more division than climate change. You dont tend to hear this, but there are people on the other side of that issue who are, think, dont even …
Joe is one of them. But a lot of smart people disagree with you. I have a very open mind. And Im going to study a lot of the things that happened on it and were going to look at it very carefully. But I have an open mind.
I do have an open mind. And weve had storms always, Arthur.
You know the hottest day ever was in 1890-something, 98. You know, you can make lots of cases for different views. I have a totally open mind.
My uncle was for 35 years a professor at M.I.T. He was a great engineer, scientist. He was a great guy. And he was … a long time ago, he had feelings — this was a long time ago — he had feelings on this subject. Its a very complex subject. Im not sure anybody is ever going to really know. I know we have, they say they have science on one side but then they also have those horrible emails that were sent between the scientists. Where was that, in Geneva or wherever five years ago? Terrible. Where they got caught, you know, so you see that and you say, whats this all about. I absolutely have an open mind. I will tell you this: Clean air is vitally important. Clean water, crystal clean water is vitally important. Safety is vitally important.
And you know, you mentioned a lot of the courses. I have some great, great, very successful golf courses. Ive received so many environmental awards for the way Ive done, you know. Ive done a tremendous amount of work where Ive received tremendous numbers. Sometimes Ill say Im actually an environmentalist and people will smile in some cases and other people that know me understand thats true. Open mind.
I think right now … well, I think there is some connectivity. There is some, something. It depends on how much. It also depends on how much its going to cost our companies. You have to understand, our companies are noncompetitive right now.
Theyre really largely noncompetitive. About four weeks ago, I started adding a certain little sentence into a lot of my speeches, that weve lost 70,000 factories since W. Bush. 70,000. When I first looked at the number, I said: That must be a typo. It cant be 70, you cant have 70,000, you wouldnt think you have 70,000 factories here. And it wasnt a typo, its right. Weve lost 70,000 factories.
Were not a competitive nation with other nations anymore. We have to make ourselves competitive. Were not competitive for a lot of reasons.
Thats becoming more and more of the reason. Because a lot of these countries that we do business with, they make deals with our president, or whoever, and then they dont adhere to the deals, you know that. And its much less expensive for their companies to produce products. So Im going to be studying that very hard, and I think I have a very big voice in it. And I think my voice is listened to, especially by people that dont believe in it. And well let you know.
The North Sea, that could be, thats a good one, right?
Yeah, look, you know well have people that do things but my inclination would be, for whatever power I have on the matter, is to say lets go forward. This has been looked at for so long. Ad nauseam. Lets go forward. And you know, you could also make the case that some good work was done in the foundation and they could have made mistakes, etc. etc. I think its time, I think its time for people to say lets go and solve some of the problems that we have, which are massive problems and, you know, I do think that theyve gone through a lot. I think losing is going through a lot. It was a tough, it was a very tough evening for her. I think losing is going through a lot. So, for whatever its worth, my, my attitude is strongly we have to go forward, we have so many different problems to solve, I dont think we have to delve back in the past. I also think that would be a very divisive, well I think it would be very divisive, you know Im talking about bringing together, and then they go into all sorts of stuff, I think it would be very, very divisive for the country.
See ya there.
Im going to take a look at it.
Sure.
O.K. First of all, on countries. I think that countries will not do that to us. I dont think if theyre run by a person that understands leadership and negotiation theyre in no position to do that to us, no matter what I do. Theyre in no position to do that to us, and that wont happen, but Im going to take a look at it. A very serious look. I want to also see how much this is costing, you know, whats the cost to it, and Ill be talking to you folks in the not-too-distant future about it, having to do with what just took place.
As far as the, you know, potential conflict of interests, though, I mean I know that from the standpoint, the law is totally on my side, meaning, the president cant have a conflict of interest. Thats been reported very widely. Despite that, I dont want there to be a conflict of interest anyway. And the laws, the president cant. And I understand why the president cant have a conflict of interest now because everything a president does in some ways is like a conflict of interest, but I have, Ive built a very great company and its a big company and its all over the world. People are starting to see, when they look at all these different jobs, like in India and other things, number one, a job like that builds great relationships with the people of India, so its all good. But I have to say, the partners come in, theyre very, very successful people. They come in, theyd say, they said, Would it be possible to have a picture? Actually, my children are working on that job. So I can say to them, Arthur, I dont want to have a picture, or, I can take a picture. I mean, I think its wonderful to take a picture. Im fine with a picture. But if it were up to some people, I would never, ever see my daughter Ivanka again. That would be like you never seeing your son again. That wouldnt be good. That wouldnt be good. But Id never, ever see my daughter Ivanka.
I know, I know, yeah.  Well, I couldnt do that either. I cant, that cant work. I cant do anything, I would never see my, I guess the only son Id be allowed to see, at least for a little while, would be Barron, because hes 10. But, but, so there has to be . Its a very interesting case.
Well …
Thats a very hard thing to do, you know what, because I have real estate. I have real estate all over the world, which now people are understanding. When I filed my forms with the federal election, people said, Wow thats really a big company, thats a big company. It really is big, its diverse, its all over the world. Its a great company with great assets. I think that, you know, selling real estate isnt like selling stock. Selling real estate is much different, its in a much different world. Id say this, and I mean this and I said it on "60 Minutes" the other night: My company is so unimportant to me relative to what Im doing, cause I dont need money, I dont need anything, and by the way, Im very under-leveraged, I have a very small percentage of my money in debt, very very small percentage of my money in debt, in fact, banks have said Wed like to loan you money, wed like to give you any amount of money. Ive been there before, Ive had it both ways, Ive been over-levered, Ive been under-levered and, especially as you get older, under-levered is much better.
Just a minute, because its an important question. I dont care about my company. I mean, if a partner comes in from India or if a partner comes in from Canada, where we did a beautiful big building that just opened, and they want to take a picture and come into my office, and my kids come in and, I originally made the deal with these people, I mean what am I going to say? Im not going to talk to you, Im not going to take pictures? You have to, you know, on a human basis, you take pictures. But I just want to say that I am given the right to do something so important in terms of so many of the issues we discussed, in terms of health care, in terms of so many different things. I dont care about my company. It doesnt matter. My kids run it. Theyll say I have a conflict because we just opened a beautiful hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue, so every time somebody stays at that hotel, if they stay because Im president, I guess you could say its a conflict of interest. Its a conflict of interest, but again, Im not going to have anything to do with the hotel, and they may very well. I mean it could be that occupancy at that hotel will be because, psychologically, occupancy at that hotel will be probably a more valuable asset now than it was before, O.K.? The brand is certainly a hotter brand than it was before. I cant help that, but I dont care. I said on "60 Minutes": I dont care. Because it doesnt matter. The only thing that matters to me is running our country.
About meeting with who?
Was I involved with the wind farms recently? Or, not that I know of. I mean, I have a problem with wind …
Which meeting? I dont know. I might have.
Oh, I see. I might have brought it up. But not having to do with me, just I mean, the wind is a very deceiving thing. First of all, we dont make the windmills in the United States. Theyre made in Germany and Japan. Theyre made out of massive amounts of steel, which goes into the atmosphere, whether its in our country or not, it goes into the atmosphere. The windmills kill birds and the windmills need massive subsidies. In other words, were subsidizing wind mills all over this country. I mean, for the most part they dont work. I dont think they work at all without subsidy, and that bothers me, and they kill all the birds. You go to a windmill, you know in California they have the, what is it? The golden eagle? And theyre like, if you shoot a golden eagle, they go to jail for five years and yet they kill them by, they actually have to get permits that theyre only allowed to kill 30 or something in one year. The windmills are devastating to the bird population, O.K. With that being said, theres a place for them. But they do need subsidy. So, if I talk negatively. Ive been saying the same thing for years about you know, the wind industry. I wouldnt want to subsidize it. Some environmentalists agree with me very much because of all of the things I just said, including the birds, and some dont. But its hard to explain. I dont care about anything having to do with anything having to do with anything other than the country.
O.K.
O.K., I dont want to influence anything, because its not that, its not that important to me. Its hard to explain.
Now, according to the law, see I figured theres something where you put something in this massive trust and theres also — nothing is written. In other words, in theory, I can be president of the United States and run my business 100 percent, sign checks on my business, which I am phasing out of very rapidly, you know, I sign checks, Im the old-fashioned type. I like to sign checks so I know what is going on as opposed to pressing a computer button, boom, and thousands of checks are automatically sent. It keeps, it tells me whats going on a little bit and it tells contractors that Im watching. But I am phasing that out now, and handing that to Eric Trump and Don Trump and Ivanka Trump for the most part, and some of my executives, so thats happening right now.
But in theory I could run my business perfectly, and then run the country perfectly. And theres never been a case like this where somebodys had, like, if you look at other people of wealth, they didnt have this kind of asset and this kind of wealth, frankly. Its just a different thing.
But there is no — I assumed that youd have to set up some type of trust or whatever and you know. And I was actually a little bit surprised to see it. So in theory I dont have to do anything. But I would like to do something. I would like to try and formalize something, because I dont care about my business.
Doral is going to run very nice. We own this incredible place in Miami. We own many incredible places, including Turnberry, I guess you heard. Theres one guy that does — when I say Turnberry, you know what that is, right. Do a little . But theyre going to run well, we have good managers, theyre going to run really well.
So I dont have to do anything, but I want to do something if I can. If there is something.
I will. Ive started it already.
I can see that. Ive started it already by, I mean, Ive greatly reduced the check-signing and the business. Ive greatly reduced meetings with contractors, meetings with different people that, you know, Ive also started by — cause Ive said over the last two years, once I decided I wanted to run, I dont want to build anything. Cause building, like for instance, we built the post office, youll be happy to hear, ahead of schedule and under budget. Substantially ahead of schedule. Almost two years ago of schedule. But ahead of schedule, under budget, and its a terrific place. Thats the hotel on Pennsylvania.
Well thats good. But most of em are made in Germany, most of em are made, you know, Siemens and the Chinese are making most of them.
They may assemble — if you check, I think youll find that the, its delivered there and they do most of the assembly.
Hi, Julie.
I cant quite hear.
Personnel.
Um, Ive known Steve Bannon a long time. If I thought he was a racist, or alt-right, or any of the things that we can, you know, the terms we can use, I wouldnt even think about hiring him. First of all, Im the one that makes the decision, not Steve Bannon or anybody else. And Kellyanne will tell you that.
And if he said something to me that, in terms of his views, or that I thought were inappropriate or bad, number one I wouldnt do anything, and number two, he would have to be gone. But I know many people that know him, and in fact, hes actually getting some very good press from a lot of the people that know him, and people that are on the left. But Steve went to Harvard, he was a, you know, he was very successful, he was a Naval officer, hes, I think hes very, very, you know, sadly, really, I think its very hard on him. I think hes having a hard time with it. Because its not him. Its not him.
Ive known him for a long time. Hes a very, very smart guy. I think he was with Goldman Sachs on top of everything else.
The which?
Well, Breitbarts different. Breitbart cover things, I mean like The New York Times covers things. I mean, I could say that Arthur is alt-right because they covered an alt-right story.
The New York Times covers a lot of stories that are, you know, rough stories. And you know, they have covered some of these things, but The New York Times covers a lot of these things also. Its just a newspaper, essentially. Its a newspaper. I know the guy, hes a decent guy, hes a very smart guy. Hes done a good job. He hasnt been with me that long. You know he really came in after the primaries. I had already won the primaries. And if I thought that his views were in that category, I would immediately let him go. And Ill tell you why. In many respects I think his views are actually on the other side of what a lot of people might think.
Yeah, well Breitbart, first of all, is just a publication. And, you know, they cover stories like you cover stories. Now, they are certainly a much more conservative paper, to put it mildly, than The New York Times. But Breitbart really is a news organization thats become quite successful, and its got readers and it does cover subjects that are on the right, but it covers subjects on the left also. I mean its a pretty big, its a pretty big thing. And he helped build it into a pretty successful news organization.
Now, Ill tell you what, I know him very well. I will say this, and I will say this, if I thought that strongly, if I thought that he was doing anything, or had any ideas that were different than the ideas that you would think, I would ask him very politely to leave. But in the meantime, I think hes been treated very unfairly.
Its very interesting cause a lot of people are coming to his defense right now.
And by the way, if you see something or get something where you feel that Im wrong, and you have some info — I would love to hear it. You can call me, Arthur can call me, I would love to hear. The only one who cant call me is Maureen . She treats me too rough.
I dont know what happened to Maureen! She was so good, Gail . For years she was so good.
Although right now theyre loving me.
Paul Ryan right now loves me, Mitch McConnell loves me, its amazing how winning can change things. Ive liked Chuck Schumer for a long time. Ive actually, Ive raised a lot of money for Chuck and given him a lot of money over the years. I think I was the first person that ever contributed to Chuck Schumer. I had a Brooklyn office, a little office, in a little apartment building in Brooklyn in Sheepshead Bay where I worked with my father.
And Chuck Schumer came in and I gave him, I believe, I dont know if hes willing to admit this, but I believe it was his first campaign contribution, $500. But Chuck Schumers a good guy. I think well get along very well.
No, I dont worry about that. Cause I didnt need to do this. I was telling Arthur before: Arthur I didnt need to do this. Im doing this to do a good job. Thats what I want to do, and I think that what happened in the Rust Belt, they call it the Rust Belt for a reason. If you go through it, you look back 20 years, they didnt used to call it the Rust Belt. You pass factory after factory after factory thats empty and rusting. Rust is the good part, cause theyre worse than rusting, theyre falling down. No, I wouldnt sacrifice that. To me more important is taking care of the people that really have proven to be, to love Donald Trump, as opposed to the political people. And frankly if the political people dont take care of these people, theyre not going to win and youre going to end up with maybe a total different kind of government than what youre looking at right now. These people are really angry. Theyre smart, theyre workers, and theyre angry. I call them the forgotten men and women. And I use that in speeches, I say theyre the forgotten people — they were totally forgotten. And were going to bring jobs back. Were going to bring jobs back, big league. Ive spoken to so many companies already, I say, dont plan on moving your company, cause youre not going to be able to move your company and sell us your product. You think youre going to just sell it across what will be a strong border, you know at least were going to have a border. But just dont plan on it.
And Ill tell you, I believe, and youll hear announcements over the next couple of months, but I believe Ive talked numerous comp — in four-minute conversations with top people — numerous companies that have, leaving, or potentially leaving our country with thousands of jobs.
They will, and well make the robots too.
Its a big thing, well make the robots too. Right now we dont make the robots. We dont make anything. But were going to, I mean, look, robotics is becoming very big and were going to do that. Were going to have more factories. We cant lose 70,000 factories. Just cant do it. Were going to start making things.
I was honored yesterday, I got a call from Bill Gates, great call, we had a great conversation, I got a call from Tim Cook at Apple, and I said, Tim, you know one of the things that will be a real achievement for me is when I get Apple to build a big plant in the United States, or many big plants in the United States, where instead of going to China, and going to Vietnam, and going to the places that you go to, youre making your product right here. He said, I understand that. I said: I think well create the incentives for you, and I think youre going to do it. Were going for a very large tax cut for corporations, which youll be happy about. But were going for big tax cuts, we have to get rid of regulations, regulations are making it impossible. Whether youre liberal or conservative, I mean I could sit down and show you regulations that anybody would agree are ridiculous. Its gotten to be a free-for-all. And companies cant, they cant even start up, they cant expand, theyre choking.
I tell you, one thing I would say, so, Im giving a big tax cut and Im giving big regulation cuts, and Ive seen all of the small business owners over the United States, and all of the big business owners, Ive met so many people. They are more excited about the regulation cut than about the tax cut. And I wouldve never said thats possible, because the tax cuts going to be substantial. You know we have companies leaving our country because the taxes are too high. But theyre leaving also because of the regulations. And I would say, of the two, and I would not have thought this, regulation cuts, substantial regulation cuts, are more important than, and more enthusiastically supported, than even the big tax cuts.
Boy, you are really into this stuff, huh?
Of course I did, of course I did.
Oh, I see, maybe you werent here. Sure. Would you like me to do it here? Ill do it here. Of course I condemn. I disavow and condemn.
No, its not the core, but its an important factor. Were going for a lot of things, between taxes, between regulations, between health care replacement, were going to talk repeal and replace. Cause health care is — you know people are paying a 100 percent increase and theyre not even getting anything, the deductibles are so high, you have deductibles $16,000. So theyre paying all of this money and they dont even get health care. So its very important. So there are a lot of things. But infrastructure, Arthur, is going to be a part of it.
I dont even think its a big part of it. Its going to be a big number but I think I am doing things that are more important than infrastructure, but infrastructure is still a part of it, and were talking about a very large-scale infrastructure bill. And thats not a very Republican thing — I didnt even know that, frankly.
It didnt work for Obama because unfortunately they didnt spend the money last time on infrastructure. They spent it on a lot of other things. You know, nobody can find out where that last — you know, from a few years ago — where that money went. And were going to make sure it is spent on infrastructure and roads and highways. I have a friend, hes a big trucker, one of the biggest. And he orders these incredible trucks, the best, I wont mention the name but its a certain truck company that makes — they call them the Rolls-Royce of trucks. You know, the most expensive trucks. And he calls me up about two months ago and he goes, Man, Im going to buy the cheapest trucks I can buy. And I said, Why? and — you know, and this is the biggest guy — he goes, My trucks are coming back, theyre going from New York to California and theyre all busted up. The highways are in such bad shape, theyre hitting potholes, theyre hitting everything. He said, Im not buying these trucks anymore, Im going to buy the cheapest stuff and the strongest tires I can get. Thats the exact expression he used, the cheapest trucks and the strongest tires.
Were hitting so many bad points, we, you know, I said, So tell me, youve been doing this how long? 45 years. He built it over 45 years. I said, Have you ever seen it like this? He said, The roads have never been like this. Its an interesting …
Honestly right now …
Lets see if I get it done. Right now theyre in love with me. O.K.? Four weeks ago they werent in love with me. Dont forget — if I read The New York Times, and you dont have to put this on the record — it can be if you want, you might not want …
Well, I do read it. Unfortunately. I would have lived about 20 years longer if I didnt.
I know. But when you look at the different, all the newspapers, I was going to lose the presidency, I was going to take the House with me, and the Senate had no chance. It was going to be the biggest humiliation in the history of politics in this country. And instead I won the presidency, easily, and I mean easily — you look at those states, I had states where I won by 30 and 40 points. I won the presidency easily, I helped numerous senators — in fact the only senators that didnt get elected were two — one up in New Hampshire who refused to say that she was going to vote for me, who by the way would love a job in the administration and I said, No, thank you. Thats on the record. This is where Im different than a politician — I know what to say, I just believe its sort of interesting.
Shed love to have a job in the administration, I said, No, thank you. She refused to vote for me. And a senator in Nevada who frankly said, he endorsed me then he unendorsed me, and he went down like a lead balloon. And then they called me before the race and said they wanted me to endorse him and do a big thing and I said, No thank you, good luck. You know, lets see what happens. I said, off the record, I hope you lose. Off the record. He was! He was up by 10 points — you know who Im talking about.
So, others — if you look at Missouri,  Blunt, he was down five points a few days before the election, he called for help, I gave him help, and I think I was up like over 30 points in Missouri. I was leading by a massive amount, 28 points. I gave him help and he ended up winning by four points or something. I brought a number of them. Pennsylvania, brought over the finish line. Lets see, we brought Johnson, in, you know, that was a good one. We brought him over the line in Wisconsin. Winning Wisconsin was big stuff, thats something that …
So right now Im in very good shape, but
I feel comfortable. I feel comfortable. I am awed by the job, as anybody would be, but I honestly, Tom, I feel so comfortable and you know it would be, to me, a great achievement if I could come back here in a year or two years and say — and have a lot of the folks here say, Youve done a great job. And I dont mean just a conservative job, cause Im not talking conservative. I mean just, weve done a good job.
Sure. I had a great meeting with President Obama. I never met him before. I really liked him a lot. The meeting was supposed to be 10 minutes, 15 minutes max, because there were a lot of people waiting outside, for both of us. And it ended up being — you were there — I guess an hour-and-a-half meeting, close. And it was a great chemistry. I think if he said overwhelmed, I dont think he meant that in a bad way. I think he meant that it is a very overwhelming job. But Im not overwhelmed by it. You can do things and fix it, I think he meant it that way. He said very nice things after the meeting and I said very nice things about him. I really enjoyed my meeting with him. We have — you know, we come from different sides of the equation, but its nevertheless something that — I didnt know if Id like him. I probably thought that maybe I wouldnt, but I did, I did like him. I really enjoyed him a lot. Ive spoken to him since the meeting.
Just a basic conversation.
I think hes looking to do absolutely the right thing for the country in terms of transition and I really, Im telling you, we had a meeting, Arthur, that went for an hour and a half that could have gone for three or four hours. It was a great — it was just a very good meeting.
He told me what he thought his, what the biggest problems of the country were, which I dont think I should reveal, I dont mind if he reveals them. But I was actually surprised a little bit. But he told me the problems, he told me things that he considered assets, but he did tell me what he thought were the biggest problems, in particular one problem that he thought was a big problem for the country, which Id rather have you ask him. But I really found the meeting to be very good. And I hope we can have a good — I mean, it doesnt mean were going to agree on everything, but I hope that we will have a great long-term relationship. I really liked him a lot and Im a little bit surprised Im telling you that I really liked him a lot.
Lets go foreign policy, sure. Sure.
Thats such a big question.
I dont think we should be a nation builder. I think weve tried that. I happen to think that going into Iraq was perhaps … I mean you could say maybe we could have settled the civil war, O.K.? I think going into Iraq was one of the great mistakes in the history of our country. I think getting out of it — I think we got out of it wrong, then lots of bad things happened, including the formation of ISIS. We could have gotten out of it differently.
I think going in was a terrible, terrible mistake. Syria, we have to solve that problem because we are going to just keep fighting, fighting forever. I have a different view on Syria than everybody else. Well, not everybody else, but then a lot of people. I had to listen to  Lindsey Graham, who, give me a break. I had to listen to Lindsey Graham talk about, you know, attacking Syria and attacking, you know, and its like youre now attacking Russia, youre attacking Iran, youre attacking. And what are we getting? Were getting — and what are we getting? And I have some very definitive, I have some very strong ideas on Syria. I think whats happened is a horrible, horrible thing. To look at the deaths, and Im not just talking deaths on our side, which are horrible, but the deaths — I mean you look at these cities, Arthur, where theyre totally, theyre rubble, massive areas, and they say two people were injured. No, thousands of people have died. O.K. And I think its a shame. And ideally we can get — do something with Syria. I spoke to Putin, as you know, he called me, essentially …
Essentially everybody called me, all of the major leaders, and most of them Ive spoken to.
I wouldnt use that term after what happened, you know, previously. I think — I would love to be able to get along with Russia and I think theyd like to be able to get along with us. Its in our mutual interest. And I dont go in with any preconceived notion, but I will tell you, I would say — when they used to say, during the campaign, Donald Trump loves Putin, Putin loves Donald Trump, I said, huh, wouldnt it be nice, Id say this in front of thousands of people, wouldnt it be nice to actually report what they said, wouldnt it be nice if we actually got along with Russia, wouldnt it be nice if we went after ISIS together, which is, by the way, aside from being dangerous, its very expensive, and ISIS shouldnt have been even allowed to form, and the people will stand up and give me a massive hand. You know they thought it was bad that I was getting along with Putin or that I believe strongly if we can get along with Russia thats a positive thing. It is a great thing that we can get along with not only Russia but that we get along with other countries.
I can only say this: We have to end that craziness thats going on in Syria. One of the things that was told to me — can I say this off the record, or is everything on the record?
I dont want to violate, I dont want to violate a …

Now we can go back on.
Thank you.
Is he a tough boss, folks? Is he tough?
O.K., O.K. So, I didnt hear the second question.
Oh. Maybe nothing. Because I dont want to have people saying conflict. Even though the president of the United States — I hope whoever is writing this story, its written fairly — the president of the United States is allowed to have whatever conflicts he wants — he or she wants. But I dont want to go by that. Jareds a very smart guy. Hes a very good guy. The people that know him, hes a quality person and I think he can be very helpful. I would love to be able to be the one that made peace with Israel and the Palestinians. I would love that, that would be such a great achievement. Because nobodys been able to do it.
Well, I think hed be very good at it. I mean he knows it so well. He knows the region, knows the people, knows the players. I would love to be — and you can put that down in a list of many things that Id like to be able to do. Now a lot of people tell me, really great people tell me, that its impossible, you cant do it. Ive had a lot of, actually, great Israeli businesspeople tell me, you cant do that, its impossible. I disagree, I think you can make peace. I think people are tired now of being shot, killed. At some point, when do they come? I think we can do that. I have reason to believe I can do that.
So, I met with General Mattis, who is a very respected guy. In fact, I met with a number of other generals, they say hes the finest there is. He is being seriously, seriously considered for secretary of defense, which is — I think its time maybe, its time for a general. Look at whats going on. We dont win, we cant beat anybody, we dont win anymore. At anything. We dont win on the border, we dont win with trade, we certainly dont win with the military. General Mattis is a strong, highly dignified man. I met with him at length and I asked him that question. I said, what do you think of waterboarding? He said — I was surprised — he said, Ive never found it to be useful. He said, Ive always found, give me a pack of cigarettes and a couple of beers and I do better with that than I do with torture. And I was very impressed by that answer. I was surprised, because hes known as being like the toughest guy. And when he said that, Im not saying it changed my mind.  Look, we have people that are chopping off heads and drowning people in steel cages and were not allowed to waterboard. But Ill tell you what, I was impressed by that answer. It certainly does not — its not going to make the kind of a difference that maybe a lot of people think. If its so important to the American people, I would go for it. I would be guided by that. But General Mattis found it to be very less important, much less important than I thought he would say. I thought he would say — you know hes known as Mad Dog Mattis, right? Mad Dog for a reason. I thought hed say Its phenomenal, dont lose it. He actually said, No, give me some cigarettes and some drinks, and well do better.
Very powerful man …
Oh, I was hoping he wasnt going to say that. I think youll be happy. I think youll be happy. Actually, somebody said to me on that, they said, You know, its a great idea, softening up those laws, but you may get sued a lot more. I said, You know, youre right, I never thought about that. I said, You know, I have to start thinking about that. So, I, I think youll be O.K. I think youre going to be fine.
