Donald Trump|Interview: Jake Tapper Interviews Donald Trump on CNN's State of the Union|June 5, 2016
Thank you.
I told you.
No, he didn't blink. Look, he's a good man. He wants what's best for the party. And, you know, when you get right down to it, no matter how you cut it, it's very easy to figure. In the history of the primaries, the Republican primaries, I got more votes by millions. We have still five states to go. We have California.
We have New Jersey. We have Montana. We have New Mexico. We have some big states. And I'm going to win all those states by a lot. And I will tell you what. In the history of the Republican primaries, I have gotten millions of votes more than Ronald Reagan, who we all love, and Dwight D. Eisenhower. Again, you go back, and I think he sees that, and I think a lot of other people -- you know...
It's a party. The people voted. And that's millions of votes, when we have 17 people, don't forget. So this isn't like, you know, we had two people. Like Hillary Clinton, sometimes says, well, I got a little more votes than Donald Trump. She had one person. I had 17 people. So, I mean, I blew out everybody.
And I think they see that, and I think that's very important, Jake.
You know the other thing that's really nice about that story? The Republican Party has millions of more people, like, millions of more people that voted in the primaries. I think it was because of me. I hope it was because of me. But millions of people voted in the primaries, some of whom never voted before.
She wasn't giving. She was reading a speech that was written by other people, OK, but go ahead.
Sound bites. 
Well, first of all, I don't have thin skin. I have very strong, very thick skin. And when somebody's right about me, I always -- if you do a report, and it's not necessarily positive, but you're right, I never complain. I do complain when it's a lie or when it's wrong. But I have a strong temperament, and it's a very good temperament, and it's a very in-control temperament, or I wouldn't have built this unbelievable company, I wouldn't have built all of the things that I have been able to do in life, I mean, number one bestsellers, one of the bestselling books of all time, tremendous television success.
I have been successful. Well, wait a minute, Jake. I have been successful in every business I have been in, if you think, real estate, one of the most successful, television, "The Apprentice," which is -- forget it. I mean, NBC came to me. They wanted to renew so badly, you have no idea. 
Oh, it has a lot to do -- you can't -- oh, you can't have that success without good temperament. And I will say this. I was thinking about the word temperament, and we need a strong temperament in this country. We have been led by weak people, weak, ineffective people. Countries have taken advantage of us, whether it's militarily or otherwise.
We have been taken advantage of by everybody. We have people with weak temperaments. I have a very strong temperament, but I have a temperament that's totally under control. And, you know -- she mentions that I will bring us into war. She's the one that wanted to go into Iraq. She raised her hand. She didn't know what the hell she was doing.
She raised her hand. I said, I don't want to go into Iraq. Iraq is going to destabilize the Middle East, and I was 100 percent right.
I will give it to you. 2004, they had newspaper articles.
It did. And -- but you know what? You look at -- I did an interview with Howard. And that interview was the first time I was ever asked the question. Don't forget, I was an entrepreneur. I'm a real estate person, asked me the question.
No, I -- this was before the war started, long before the war started.
And it was a very like, well, I don't know. First, nobody ever asked me the question. You know, when you're doing what I did, nobody was talking about a lot of the questions that you ask me today. And I was -- I sort of said, like, well, I don't know, maybe -- I don't know. By the time that started, I was totally against it. And from 2004 on, there's a lot of proof of that, because, as you know, there was articles in magazines.
There was a lot of articles.
No, no, but I was against it from before it started.
And if you go back and look at that interview -- and I will get it for you, if you want -- but that interview was substantially before the war started. It was the first time I was ever asked the question. And even that, it wasn't like, oh, yes, we should go in. It was a very, yes, maybe, you know?
OK, but I think there is evidence.
I think there is evidence.
OK. I hadn't been asked that question before. Nobody said that to me before. I think there is evidence. I will see if I can get it.
But I will say, from the beginning of 2004, I mean, I have had articles, and there are magazines. 
OK?
So, I was against the war a long time ago, and it destabilized the Middle East. And that's exactly what I said was going to happen. And I also said Iran will take over Iraq, because we ruined the balance of those two militarily. We destroyed -- we knocked out one of the two balancing prongs. And Iran is taking -- as sure as you're sitting there, Iran is taking over Iraq.
They're taking over the oil. They're taking over everything.
A hundred percent.
A hundred percent.
Yes, but what I -- here's what you don't have. Every time I have ever said anything about Japan defending themselves -- and, again, they're going to have to defend themselves with whatever they are going to have -- we right now defend Japan. Japan pays us a small fraction of the cost, a very small fraction.
I want them to pay us at least the cost, because we don't have... 
It's actually less than 50 percent. But a general got on and said 50 percent recently. But, even if it was 50 percent, why aren't they paying us 100 percent?
Of course they should pay 100 percent. You're talking about -- you're talking about billions and billions of dollars, and you're talking about worse than that. You're talking about World War III. Somebody attacks Japan, and we end up in World War III? 
And, by the way -- by the way, no, listen to this. If we get attacked, Japan doesn't have to defend us, OK? That's pretty bad. Whenever I talk about Japan and defense and NATO and defense and Saudi Arabia and, by the way, Germany -- a lot of people don't even -- until I got involved in this, most people didn't even know we were defending Japan and Germany.
They knew about Saudi Arabia. I mean, Saudi Arabia's got more money than anybody. Why aren't they paying us, OK?
Yes. And, you know, we pay rent on those bases. We pay rent. And do you know, we pay rent in Saudi Arabia? We're defending them, and we're paying rent.
No, no, what I'm saying, though, Jake, is, how can this be possible? Why aren't they paying at least the cost? And don't forget, that cost, then we have tremendous backup and other things. I mean, we're providing a tremendous service. Our country is stone-cold broke. We owe $19 trillion. It's going to be $21 trillion very soon.
We have Obamacare, which is a total disaster. You saw yesterday in Texas 60 percent increase with Blue Cross/Blue Shield through Obamacare, 60 percent increase. It was -- I mean, it should be a scandal, but nobody's even reporting it. It's hardly being reported. So, whenever I talk about Japan or Germany or Saudi Arabia, I always say, no, no, if they don't make us whole, they may have to defend themselves.
That's up to them. It's not up to me. It's up to them.
But you know what I think is going to happen? You have to be prepared to walk from a deal. You can't go in there saying -- like Hillary said, we will never let our partners down. We will never, never, never. OK, that's wonderful, except, you know what? If I'm Japan, I say good. We'll keep paying the 50 percent.
It's actually less than that. We might even keep paying -- you know, just keep paying what we're paying, which is a fraction of the cost. You have to be prepared to walk. If you aren't prepared to walk, you're never going to be able to able to -- these are very smart people we're dealing with, OK? They've been ripping us off for a long time.
And I love Japan. I have many friends in Japan.
Excuse me.
It's got to work two ways.
They never talk about the economics. They never talk about the cost -- big factor, big factor. They always say, Donald Trump -- so, she says, Donald Trump -- I could take that speech, and almost all of the lines, but certainly more than half, it was just written by professional people. And then she read it. I mean, you tell me. That's presidential, OK? But she read it. So much falsity in there, I mean, so many things wrong.
But I could take that speech -- and I actually will be doing it. I think I'm going to re -- I think I'm going to go to give a little retort to her speech.
Maybe I will do it on Monday before the election. And most of the things, many of the things that she said were absolutely wrong.
By thugs.
By thugs.
The people that burn our American flag, they're thugs.
I would be very strong if I were the police. I think Sheriff Joe Arpaio would not have let a thing like that happen, I will tell you, because we had a potential of some violence. He walked in there, and they just split up like you have never seen.
No. No, I think -- well, they didn't have too many. But I will say there's -- no, no, I'm the biggest fan. They have to be able to do their job.
No, I think they have to be able to do their job. I think the police forces are being treated very unfairly in this country. They're afraid to do anything, because they don't want to lose their jobs. They don't want to lose their pensions. They don't want to be criticized. And people -- things are happening.
Let me give you an example. We had a tremendous crowd, as you know, last night. It was a lovefest inside, no problem whatsoever. It was a lovefest. It went on for an hour. I spoke for an hour. The people were cheering and standing ovations. I mean, it was an amazing thing.
Outside, there were probably 150. Some of those people are -- they go to every rally. OK, they're -- in my opinion, they're paid agitators. But you can figure that out better than anybody. When my people walked out, they're peaceful people. Eggs were thrown in a woman's face.
My people didn't start it. Eggs were thrown in somebody's face. You know, it was very interesting. Last week, I was in San Diego. I had a massive crowd, and many of them were Marines and they were Navy SEALs. They were tough, because San Diego is very much of a military area. And these people walked out.
And they saw what was happening, and, man, was that problem over with pretty fast.
And it's very important, though, that I say the people that are causing that problem, they're not my people. They're people that are outside. They're thugs and they're agitators. They're bad people. I think they're sent by the Democrats.
Well, they have the Bernie signs. They got a lot of Bernie signs.
Well, they have got the Bernie signs. And they're the Bernie signs, the same people -- the same signs that they use at their rallies.
Sure. Sure.
OK. Yes. Yes.
Oh, she's so wonderful. You know, I mean, here's a woman that should be put in jail for what she did with her e-mails, and she's commenting on this.
Let me just tell you. Let me just tell you. It's very simple. I have a case where I have thousands of people have taken this course, and thousands and thousands of people have said great reviews, great reviews. Fortunately, just about everybody that took the courses have signed a review, an evaluation, they call it. And it's gotten tremendous marks, thousands.
I don't mean like two people. I mean thousands of people.
OK. I have a situation where the woman that brought the case brought the case. She's the plaintiff. She was deposed. She was found to be a disaster for them as a witness, because she gave an evaluation that was like the best evaluation you've ever heard. Wait just one second.
And she did a tape like front from your camera saying that this school was fantastic, it was fantastic. They went to the judge and they said: Your Honor, we don't want her anymore to be our plaintiff. So, we said, let's dismiss the case. That's OK. Let's dismiss the case. And he said: No, I won't dismiss the case, and she doesn't have to be the plaintiff.
Let me tell you.
I will tell you what it has to do. I have had ruling after ruling after ruling that's been bad rulings, OK? I have been treated very unfairly. Beforehand, we had another judge. If that judge was still there, this case would have been over two years ago. Let me just tell you, I have had horrible rulings. I have been treated very unfairly by this judge.
Now, this judge is of Mexican heritage. I'm building a wall, OK? I'm building a wall. I'm going to do very well with the Hispanics, the Mexicans. 
Well, no, he is a member of a society where -- very pro- Mexico. And that's fine. It's all fine. 
I think he should recuse himself.
Then you also say, does he know the lawyer on the other side? I mean, does he know the lawyer? And a lot of people... 
No, that's another -- that's another problem.
Here's what... 
Jake, I'm building a wall, OK? I'm building a wall. I am trying to keep business out of Mexico. Mexico's fine. There's nothing...
He's of Mexican heritage. And he's very proud of it, as I am of where I come from, my parents.
Jake, Jake, Jake, are you ready? I have a case that should have been dismissed already. I have thousands of people saying, Trump University's fantastic, OK? I have a case that should have been dismissed. I have a judge that never, ever give a -- now we lose the plaintiff. He lets the plaintiff of the case out.
So why isn't he canceling the case? So, we thought we won the case.
No, no, no.
Not me. I have had lawyers come up to me, say, you are being treated so unfairly, it's unbelievable.
You know that plaintiffs in the case have all said wonderful things about the school, and they're suing? You know why they're suing? Because they want to get their money back.
You have to because, because if he was giving me fair rulings, I wouldn't say that.
Jake, if he were giving me fair rulings, I wouldn't be talking to you this way. He's given me horrible rulings.
I think that's why he's doing it.
I think that's why he's doing it.
Hillary Clinton is a stiff. If Hillary Clinton becomes president... 
Look, I'm just telling you, Paul Ryan doesn't know the case. This is... 
I should have won this case on summary judgment. This is not a case -- this is a case I should have won on summary judgment. Do you know the law firm paid Hillary Clinton hundreds of thousands of dollars to make speeches? Do you know the law firm has...
Oh, you do? Oh.
OK, good. Well, I'm glad. You're the only one.
The law firm -- wait a minute. The law firm paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to Hillary Clinton for speeches.
She wasn't worth it. Everybody fell asleep during the speech, OK?
Do you know that they have contributed tremendous amounts of money to her campaign?
Do you know that they contributed a lot of money to Eric Schneiderman, the New York attorney general?
No, no. Do you know that?
Do you know that these people went to every attorney general, practically, in the country that they could, and do you know this case was turned down by almost every attorney general, from Texas to Florida to many of these states?
No, I don't think so at all.
No. He's proud of his heritage. I -- I respect him for that.
Look, he's proud of his heritage. OK? I'm building a wall. Now, I think I'm going to do very well with Hispanics.
You know why I'm going to do well with Hispanics? Because I'm going to bring back jobs, and they're going to get jobs right now. They're going to get jobs. I think I'm going to do very well with Hispanics. But we're building a wall. He's a Mexican. We're building a wall between here and Mexico. The answer is, he is giving us very unfair rulings, rulings that people can't even believe.
This case should have ended years ago on summary judgment. The best lawyers -- I have spoken to so many lawyers. They said, this is not a case. This is a case that should have ended. This judge is giving us unfair rulings. Now I say why. Well, I want to -- I'm building a wall, OK? And it's a wall between Mexico, not another country, and... 
In my opinion -- he is -- his Mexican -- Mexican heritage. And he's very proud of it.
Excuse me. Hey, you know what? I'm not building a wall between Scotland and the United States.
I don't think so. I don't think so. Look, he's worried about a lot of things, I guess. But I don't think so. I think I'm going to do very well with Latinos or Hispanics. You know, I employee thousands of Latinos. I employ, over the years, thousands of Mexicans. They're great. They're great. I deal with them.
I sell them apartments. I deal -- you know, I deal with them. And, by the way, I deal with China. I have tremendous relations, business relationships with China, including having the largest bank in the world of a tenant in one of my buildings in Manhattan.
And selling lots of condos. I get along with all these countries, by the way. And I don't blame Mexico, and I don't blame the leadership of Mexico. I don't blame the leadership of China. I blame the leadership of the United States, because they're doing stupid things. They're doing -- they're -- I don't know, are they stupid people?
I guess the answer is yes, or they have bad intentions, one or the other. But you look at what's happening to our country, and, you know, you congratulate me before on winning.
And I told you I was going to win. And one of the primary reasons I felt so confident was that the people of this country are smart. And when they see the stupidity going on with the Iran deal and these trade deals -- trade deals that are just sucking the blood out of our country -- they're sucking the jobs and the money out of our country -- I felt I would win.
And I turned out to be right.
Yes. Yes.
No, I wouldn't. I would -- I just want a place -- honestly, look, it's a very special place. It's a very special building. A lot of people say I'm going to move into the hotel that I'm building two blocks away. No. The White House represents something so important.
It's going to be clean. It's going to be beautiful. It's going to be well-maintained. It's going to be just like it is. I'm going to be working. I'm not going to be decorating. I'm going to be working. We're going to make new deals with China, new deals with Japan, new deals with Mexico. We're going to make great deals for the country.
We're going to make the country rich again, and we're going to make our country great again.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Jake.