Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Addresses Agricultural Innovation|June 21, 2017
Thank you very much. I just learned more about farming than I ever thought Id learn. What a good place. I love it. I want to thank also Dean Scott Ermer along with the students and faculty at Kirkwood Community College for hosting us.
What a beautiful place. Were here today to talk about how were going to empower Americas farmers and protect our nations proud farming legacy, including ethanol, which Ive done.  Family farmers are the backbone of America, and my administration will always support the farmer.
I want to begin by congratulating Iowas new governor, Kim Reynolds. Wheres Kim?  Im so proud of Kim. Ive known Kim for a long time, and her husband. And I said, you know, one of the other things I get with Terry, by moving him out, Kim becomes governor and Terry can take on China.  Thats not bad. She is doing a great job.
Thanks also to Lieutenant Governor Adam Gregg --  -- and Iowa Secretary of Agriculture, a man whos been to so many of my stops, Bill Northey.  Thank you, Bill. Thank you for all that support. And Congressman -- a very popular guy -- Rod Blum, doing a fantastic job in Washington.
All right, so, most importantly, I have to say -- they will all agree -- hes a great friend of mine, with an incredible family, a very talented son, Eric -- that I can tell you -- but Im really, truly proud. I wanted to be here for this reason -- to congratulate your former governor, our new ambassador to China, Terry Branstad.
Terry is a true legend. The people of Iowa first made him governor in 1983. You elected him six times and made him the longest-serving governor of any state in the history of America. Thats not bad.
Under Terry, Iowas economy is stronger, its farmers more successful, its schools better, its communities more prosperous, and its citizens safer. And I want to tell you thats three decades. This is one great man.
Hes been in politics for more than three decades. And were going to keep him there -- I dont know, do we consider ambassadors politicians? Not really, in the true sense. So perhaps we sort pulled you out. But hes going to be a doing a job.
Ill tell you one quick story with Terry. When I was campaigning in Iowa, Terry would always say, "Do me favor -- dont say anything bad about China."
See, in that day -- in those days, he didnt call me "Mr. President" -- hed say "Donald." Hed say, "Donald, dont say anything bad about China." I said, why? He said, "We have a great relationship with China, and I like it, and I really like President Xi," who he knew for 30-some-odd years.
And it really dawned on me when I was thinking about ambassadors. I said, boy, wouldnt it be great if I picked a man that really likes China and, by the way, China really likes him?
So that was an easy one. I called him up, and I said, you know, I think after 24 years its maybe time for a change, so let me just steal you. I also knew about Kim, and Kim has been a great supporter and friend, and so I knew that that was going to be taken care of very nicely. So were really happy and really proud of Terry.
You know, his legacy will endure for a long, long time in this state. He loves this state and the people so much. And together, we all join to express our deep gratitude to Terry for everything he has done for Iowa and for its people. Mr. Ambassador, thank you very much. And have a good time in China.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. For a farm kid from Iowa, my lifes ambition was to serve the people as governor. I never imagined in my wildest dreams that President Trump would ask me to represent all of the United States of America in China. I will do my very best.
Mr. President, first of all, I want to congratulate you on your leadership. Weve been trying to get American beef in China for 13 years, and youve already got it done.  And theres more to come!
I am honored and proud to represent the United States of America and President Trump in the Peoples Republic of China. And I hope a lot of you will come to see us. Thank you.
Thank you. Great guy. Ambassador Branstad will be serving in Beijing, but hes going to be fighting for American farmers and for American workers and for Americans. And theres nobody I can think of that can do a better job or a more effective job.
So, Terry, go out there. Hell be joining Secretary of Agriculture -- somebody you all know very well -- the legendary, Sonny Perdue --  -- and a man who is another legend on Wall Street -- truly a legend; they just call him Wilbur. How about Wall Street?  Where Wall Street is big and strong, hes just known as Wilbur.
Its Wilbur Ross. Wilbur Ross, Secretary of Commerce. Pretty good on Wall Street. When they just say, "I hear Wilbur is going to be Secretary of Commerce" -- Carl Icahn called me. He said, "Donald, I heard you got Wilbur." That was it. It wasnt "Wilbur Ross." But theres Wilbur Ross, and hes going a fantastic job.
And also working along with Wilbur is U.S. Trade Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, another phenomenal talent. And I told you about fair trade. I told you about free trade.
I told you about trade. We have the best in the world on our side now, finally, after watching for many, many decades whats been happening, with trade deficits that are beyond anything that anybody could imagine -- hundreds of billions of dollars. And now we have the right people on our side.
So, Wilbur, go out and do it. Robert, go out and do it. Well all have a good time together. And you know what? The world is going to like us even better, believe it or not.
So theyre going to be representing --  -- theyre going to be representing Americas interests and delivering historic wins for our farmers and our factory workers, and our workers generally. And I have to tell you, last night was very exciting.
Karen Handel and Ralph -- Ralph Norman.  Ralph Norman. I spoke to Ralph today. He won a great event. Now, a lot of people didnt show up to vote because they said, well, hes going to win by so much. It got a little bit tighter than he thought.
Sometimes when they think youre going to win by too much, I wouldnt say thats so good. Next time were going to say its going to be really close. But he still won easily. But what a fantastic guy he is. And between the two of them, that was a big night.
So were 5-0 in special elections -- 5-0.  5-0. And I watched the faces on those newscasters, in many cases, and they were going, oh, this is going to be a big night; this will be great humiliation for President Trump if she doesnt make it. Well, they werent thinking in terms of Ralph so much. In all fairness, Ralph sort of said he felt like the forgotten man last night.
But this will be tremendous humiliation -- they built these studios; they built everything. They were set. Believe me, had our wonderful candidate lost, this would have been one of the great, big stories in the history of American politics.
Those studios would have been up for weeks. They would have been talking for weeks about this tremendous defeat. And after it said projected winner was sort of -- they just sort of slinked out of there.  They slinked out.
One of them actually said, well, maybe it was the weather. You know, it was drizzling. A little bit like this, but a little bit less. It was drizzling. Did you hear that one, Ambassador? It was drizzling. Maybe that was the difference.
And won by a lot. Won by a lot. So were very happy. And shes going to be -- Karen is going to be a great person in Congress. And we have some incredible people and were doing some really wonderful things, including the taxes are coming along and the healthcare is coming along.
And we have Gary Cohn, the President of Goldman Sachs, who left Goldman Sachs and a slightly higher salary than hes getting right now by, like, hundreds of millions of dollars -- like by a lot.  Wheres Gary? Hes around here someplace.
And Gary is working on some incredible plans -- not only taxes, but were going to be rebuilding our country. Were going to do things in terms of infrastructure that we need. Our roads, our highways, our bridges, our schools, our airports.
We spent, as of a few months ago, $6 trillion -- trillion -- in the Middle East. We have nothing. Were back further than we were 16 years ago when this whole thing started -- $6 trillion. And if you want to spend three and half dollars to build a school, or you want to build -- you want to spend any money in this country, its like a big deal. But we spent $6 trillion in the Middle East. And were going to get that whole situation under control.
Thats not an easy one. I was dealt a very difficult hand, believe me, when I took over, between North Korea, the Middle East -- you look at Afghanistan, whats going on there. This was a tough hand. But you put me there for a reason, and I think youre going to be very happy with the end result, believe me.
American farmers and ranchers are the best -- absolute best at what they do. And they can compete anywhere if they are given a level playing field. Theyre not given that level playing field because of our terrible, terrible trade deals. And were going to start doing much better. You produce the product, but you have to work too hard and too long to make a living.
Were cracking down on foreign trading abuses; making it easier to produce and grow in America; eliminating job-killing regulations all over the place --  -- and were training our great American workers.
Thats why its so important to support schools like Kirkwood, which are helping to train young people in cutting-edge new technologies that will make American agriculture greater and more productive than ever before.
Farming -- which is something that is very beautiful to me. Im not a farmer, but Id be very happy to be one. Its a very beautiful world to me. And its a truly noble American profession. Today, were celebrating the dignity of work and the greatness of the American farmer and the American worker.
George Washington once wrote: "Id rather be on my farm than be emperor of the world." We understand that. Especially after Ive spent all this time in Washington, I can really understand.
I want to make sure the next generation of Americans has that opportunity as well. And, in particular, that includes your children and your grandchildren, and working very hard to get rid of the death tax so that those farms can be passed on.
Very, very hard to get rid of that. Were working very hard so your farms can be passed on to your children and your grandchildren. And theyll keep them going and theyll run them with love.
We want to eliminate the intrusive rules that undermine your ability to earn a living, and we will protect the corn-based ethanol and biofuels that power our country.  And you remember, during the campaign, I made that promise.
And I also made a promise, Im coming back. And here I am. And that promise has been kept.  And even Terry is clapping about that one, but he was fighting very hard for that, believe me.
For the past two weeks, my administration has been working extensively on vocational education, infrastructure, and technology. Here, at this great facility, we have just seen fantastic examples of how vocational training in new technologies can help make American farming even more productive so we can compete and win, win, win on the world stage.
We saw how todays farmers can adjust application rates of fertilizers in their fields with just the touch of a smartphone. Its changed a lot over the years.
They showed us how they use precision agriculture to produce crops more efficiently and for far less cost. Theyve demonstrated how drones, of all things, are used to gather data on crops, and how simulators are used to train students in the next generation of farming equipment.
If we continue to train our workers in these new technologies, then we will usher in a new era of prosperity for American agriculture and for the American farming family.
We must also ensure that these students have the broadband Internet access they need in order to succeed and thrive in this new and very modern and very changed economy and world. That is why I will be including a provision in our infrastructure proposal -- $1 trillion proposal -- youll be seeing it very shortly -- to promote and foster enhanced broadband access for rural America also.  We know that Wall Street wants it very badly, but you know what else? The farmers also want it. And youre going to have it.
We have to make sure American farmers and their families, wherever they may be, wherever they may go, have the infrastructure projects that they need to compete and grow. And I mean grow against world competition, because thats who youre up against now.
We will rebuild rural America.  American farmers --  -- thank you -- American farmers pour their hearts into their crops and their love into their great communities. Thats why they call this the Heartland.
And those maps, those electoral maps, they were all red. Beautiful red.  Beautiful.  If you look at those maps, its almost like -- wow. A lot places that people werent thinking about turned red. A couple of little blue dots on the sides, but they are red -- farmers.
And our farmers work ethic feeds America, and their toughness and grit define America. Theyre tough and theyre smart.  Our rich and abundant soil provides more than a living; it provides a beautiful way of life for a lot of people.
Today we honor and treasure this noble history, and embrace the new technology that will power this industry well into the future. With incredible leaders and students like all of you, I know that the future of American farming has never looked brighter. Believe me. And with me as your President, its going to be that way, I will tell you that.
