Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Huntsville, Alabama|September 22, 2017
Thank you very much. Wow. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you everybody. I love this place. You know, we set every record in Alabama. I love Alabama.
Its special, thank you very much.  Well, I am, Im thrilled to be here with a really great person that Ive gotten to know, Luther Strange, and with the hardworking, patriotic citizens of this great state. You have some football games tomorrow, but were going to have a lot of fun and then youre going to win at football tomorrow.  I love this state and I love the people of this state.
Theyve been so good to me. And we are producing, we are really producing.  Thank you. Thank you.
And on Tuesday, were going to send a real fighter and a real good guy from Alabama to the United States Senate on a permanent basis.  And we have another great person in our audience tonight, Richard Shelby. Where is Richard? Where is he? Richard?  Wheres Richard? Thank you, Richard. Stand up so they can see you, Richard.
Fantastic. Thank you, Richard.  Respected man, I will tell you. Hes respected and loved in the Senate.
Hes only been there for, what, 34 years or something like that, right? But he loves the people of Alabama, too. And like all of you, Luther Strange knows the true source of Americas strength. Its God, its family and its country.  And Luther is going to be taking over for a man that you all love.
Whats his name? Senator Jeff Sessions, you love Jeff Sessions and hes doing a good job.  He is doing a good job. We have him very busy watching the borders. A lot of things are happening.
But Luther is taking over for Jeff hopefully and you are going to be so impressed with what were going to do in Washington. But before we begin, I want to send our thoughts and prayers to the people of Texas and Louisiana and Florida and Georgia and Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and all of the other communities that have recently been ravaged by storms and by floods.
And you took such great care of those people, you really did.  I said, you know, Governor, youre the fastest-growing state anywhere in the world this week. But it was -- you really did, you did a great job. And your governor is doing a great job, too, by the way.
When one part of America hurts, we all hurt. We grieve over all thats been lost, but were also inspired by the incredible strength and spirit and resilience of our people. Together, we will recover, rebuild and return bigger, better, stronger than ever before. Its going to happen.
Its going to happen quickly, quickly, better. Right?  We also send our prayers to the people of Mexico. They got hit hard by a devastating earthquake, taken a lot of lives, a lot more than they even thought. And Ive spoken with the president of Mexico and we pledged our total support.
We have crews in there right now lifting up that heavy concrete. And its a rough sight, its a rough sight. Weve got a lot of people we sent down with a lot of big equipment, but thats a tough go. Its a really tough thing to look at and to see and to see the sadness.
But that was bad. Ive just come from a very productive week at the United Nations General Assembly.  Where weve been working with our friends and allies to pursue a future of prosperity and security and peace. And weve got some really good people that I know and have tremendous relationships and we have some really, really bad people and were going to take care of the bad people.
Its about time. Were going to take care of the bad people.  Its one of the greatest honors of my life to represent the American people on that world stage. And I will tell you, the world is starting to respect the United States of America again.
As I said during my address to the United Nation, I will always defend Americas interests above all else. Im here for you, Im not here for global interests . Were not here for the rest of the globe.  And we want to treat the rest of the globe right.
And, you know, when I say America first everyone was saying, gee, and I never liked it from the standpoint that if youre in another country you want your country to be first by the leader, right? So nobody really understood. For years theyve said America first, although Im the one that really means it, theres a big difference.  And I said, look, its going to be America first. Were going to renegotiate these trade deals.
Were bringing a lot of people back. Were bringing companies back. You see it in Alabama. You see it in Alabama.
But Im not going to worry so much about other countries. I want to treat them with respect, I want to treat them good and I want their people to fight for them just like Im going to fight. But were going to be like your football teams, were going to win all the time, were going to win. Believe me.
I believe the best path to a more peaceful world are proud, independent and sovereign nations that serve and respect their own people. When you look at whats going on in the world, you have so many where they dont respect their people. But we want nations that cooperate together to create better for all people. Thats what were all about, all people.
And we cant have madmen out there shooting rockets all over the place.  And by the way, "Rocket Man"" should have been handled a long time ago.  He should have been handled a long time ago by Clinton. I wont mention the Republicans
Why did this -- you know, this is a different time. This should have been handled eight years ago and four years ago and 15 years ago and 20 years ago and 25 years ago. This shouldnt be handled now. But Im going to handle it because we have to handle it.
Little "Rocket Man."" Were going to do it because we really have no choice. We really have no choice. Now
And I want to tell you something, and Im sure hes listening because he watches every word. And I guarantee you one thing, hes watching us like he never watched anybody before, that I can tell you, that I can tell you.  And maybe something gets worked out and maybe it doesnt. Personally, Im not sure that it will.
Other people like to say, oh, we want peace. You know, theyve been saying now for 25 years, oh, we want peace, we want peace. And then he goes and just keeps going, going, going. Well, maybe something gets worked out and maybe it doesnt.
But I can tell you one thing, you are protected, OK? You are protected. Nobody is going to mess with our people.  Nobody is going to play games. Nobody is going to put our people in that kind of danger.
Nobody.  And Japan and South Korea are right up there with us. And by the way, many other countries, many, many other countries, theyre right up there with us. And I have to tell you, I made a friend in China, President Xi, and yesterday he basically took the banking industry away from North Korea.
Never been done before.  Never been done. Thats based on relationship. Relationship is very good.
But were dealing with somebody that well figure out he may be smart, he may be strategic and he may be totally crazy. But you know what? No matter what he is, were going to handle it, folks, believe me. Were going to handle it.  The foundation for progress begins at home with a government that protects and defends our citizens.
And thats what we have to do. That is why Im here tonight to ask the good people of Alabama to send Luther Strange to the United States Senate so he can defend your interests, fight for your values and always put America first. Go out and get out the vote!
But Im going to tell you, Ill just tell you this quick, crazy story. So why do I like Luther? Because, you know, I have a lot of friends and some of them called, do you mind if I go for the other candidate? I said really you can, I mean, some of them are working for me and they feel and thats fine.
Of course, they may not have a job on Monday, but these are my -- right, Richard? We may have to get rid of a few of them. Ive already gotten rid of a few of them. But theyre good people. No, theyre good people.
But Ill tell you what happened. The first go around on health care, I said, you know, for seven years weve been hearing repeal and replace Obamacare, right? For seven years Ive been hearing repeal and replace. So Im very much involved. You know, they like to say, well, Mr.
Trump, President Trump sat in the Oval Office and didnt -- Im on the phone screaming at people all day long for weeks. They gave me a list of 10 people that were absolute noes. These are 10 Republican senators. Now, John McCains list...
John McCain was not on the list, so that was a totally unexpected thing, terrible. Honestly terrible. Repeal and replace because John McCain, if you look at his campaign, his last campaign, was all about repeal and replace, repeal and replace. So he decided to do something different and thats fine.
And I say we still have a chance to -- oh, were going to do it eventually, were going to do it eventually. With Luther and everyone were going to do it. But I have to tell you this story because were here tonight for Luther Strange. Im here sort of for two.
Im here for Luther and Im actually here, its a Friday night, I really do love the people of Alabama because youve treated me so good.  In fact, I said, I dont want to speak negatively, I said, though, that if I lose this election, maybe Ill end up moving to Alabama or Kentucky or, like, some states.  I mean, nice to go where people love you and where you love them because its special. So heres what happened.
Heres what happened. But we never want to lose, right, despite that. We dont want to lose because we have a great agenda. And by the way, were doing a lot of work, were getting a lot of things done.
They hate to admit it. Including we have a Supreme Court justice, Judge Gorsuch, who will save how about a thing called your Second Amendment, right. OK, remember that?  If crooked Hillary got elected, you would not have a Second Amendment, believe me. Youd be handing in your rifles.
Youd be saying here, here, here they are.  Youd be turning over your rifles. Youve got to speak to Jeff Sessions about that.  So heres what happened with Luther.
So Luther, I get this list, 10 names of people that are absolute total noes. And there were good people, a lot of them. By the way, in all fairness, Rand Paul was on that list. They said dont even waste your time calling him.
He voted twice yes, OK? He was very good. And I havent given up on him because I think he may come around, OK? Wouldnt it be ironic if he took John McCains place and they definitely do not like each other. Wouldnt that be ironic? That would be very ironic for those of you that know the inner workings of the Senate. So with Luther, so I have a list and one of the names is Luther Strange.
And I know hes the senator from Alabama, but I dont know him, I met him once. I said that is the tallest human being Ive ever seen. Im tall. Im tall.
I never saw something -- hes, like, he should be on the New York Nicks, they could use him. So thats why I call him "Big Luther
OK. And Ill get a vote or I wont, whatever, but brutal, brutal. You know what that is, folks, right? Its called brutality. I call another one, I say, Senator, we need your vote, I know youre opposed to it, but I -- well, you know, I think I can get there, but you have to do me a favor.
You have to see my brother and his wife, they love you and they want to have dinner with you and they want to have breakfast with you and lunch, then after youre finished with them, how about well go out for a picnic someplace on the White House lawn and then after that maybe well start talking about it.
I say, oh, my, oh, it was brutal. You have no idea. OK. Now I call Luther Strange.
I say, oh, Ive got to call this guy and hes a no, right? And I say, Senator, I need your help. I said Ive got to get your vote on health care. He says youve got it.  I said, what do you mean I have it? Because Ive just been hammered by all of these people.
Right? What do you mean I have it? He said, sir, I was for you right from the beginning, I knew you were going to win, I knew you were going to win the whole thing. Ive always been for you, my family has always been for you. And honestly, Mr. President, if you want my vote you have it.
I said, do I have to come and meet you someplace? Do I have to have dinner with your family? I think his wife, by the way, is fantastic. But I said, do I have to have dinner with you and your wife? No, sir, you dont have to have anything. Ive supported you from the beginning and you shouldnt even waste anymore time talking to me. Mr.
President, you have my total support. I went home and told my wife thats the coolest thing thats happened to me in six months. OK? Its true. Its a true story.
And then time goes by. And he voted and then, of course, you know, John McCain came in and he went thumbs down at 3:00 in the morning.  Oh, do I know so much, folks, I could tell you. It was sad.
And we had a couple of other senators, but, you know, at least we knew where we stood there. That was, like, really a horrible thing. Honestly, that was a horrible, horrible thing that happened to the Republican Party. That was a horrible thing.
So anyway, so time goes by and I see Luthers in a race. And people are saying hes friendly. Whether you like Mitch McConnell or not, doesnt matter, but theyre saying hes friendly with Mitch. He doesnt even know Mitch McConnell.
He was just there for a few months. And theyve put that mantle around his neck. And I told Mitch Id like to say this. You know, I dont like to, but Im telling you he doesnt know Mitch McConnell at all.
Luther is a tough, tough cookie. He doesnt deal with and kowtow to anybody. So they put it around. So all of a sudden, I see hes down in the race by a lot.
And I said, man, thats really unfair. They were giving him a bum rap because he happened to be in the Senate. They were giving him a bum rap. And I remember the call.
And by the way, the other people that I called, and theyre all fine, but you dont even remember. The dinners, you dont even remember any of it. You remember one sentence: Sir, dont even waste your time talking anymore, you have a lot of business to do, you have my vote. This was a definite no.
And I said thats the coolest thing and I remembered it. And I called him. And I checked and he was down because of being saddled with stuff. He was down by quite a bit.
And I said Im going to endorse you. And he didnt believe it. He said you would do that? I said, yeah, Im going to do that. I shouldnt be doing it.
The last thing I want to do is be involved in a primary, OK? I could be sitting home right now getting to watch some of the games tomorrow, getting ready, right? But seriously, the last thing I wanted to do is get -- but Ill never forget the way he did that. It was really cool. So what happened is I called him and I said, you know, I want to -- first of all, how are you doing, how are you doing?
And he said, honestly Im down a little bit, but I think were going to -- I said I think youre going to come back, too, Luther. I think youre going to come back and youre going to kick everyones ass and youre going to do great, youre going to do great.
Because he got saddled with things that he should not have gotten saddled with. So he started off here, he was in third or fourth, he went to third, second and now its, like, almost pretty even, right? And I called him up a week ago and I said, you know, I think youre down by a few points, but Im going to come to Alabama and Im going to make a speech for you on Friday.  And such a true story. And as soon as we announced -- you know, you look at this arena.
You know, the media, the fake news I call it, the worst, the fake news...  ...they wont show this. You know, theyll say Donald Trump spoke before a small crowd in Alabama last night. It was a small crowd, very unenthusiastic crowd, it was a terrible evening.
No, these are among the most dishonest people. I really mean it. These are among the most dishonest.  For instance, look at the crowd.
Id love to have them show the crowd, but they dont show the crowd, they show me the whole night. I go home, I say, Melania -- and by the way, shes become very popular, hasnt she? Shes become very popular.  And, I mean, she respects the White House, we love the White House. They actually said about me that I called the White House a dump.
I think the White House is one of the most beautiful buildings Ive ever seen. And I speak of it with reverence. And they said that and they wouldnt retract it. And I hated it because I speak so well, I love the White House.
But my wife respects the White House greatly. So when she leaves the plane, were going to Texas where they had the hurricane, and she leaves the plane and shes dressed appropriately for the White House, you know, because we respect the White House a lot. And shes wearing high heels, like many of you would do. And they went after her.
But she didnt know. And then when she got out in the plane in Texas she was wearing sneakers which she had with her.  And they know it was dishonest, but thats the way it is. They said she wore high heels.
You know, shes going to go into the floods. Shes going to go into the floods with high heels. But she has become very popular. But I have to say this.
So Luther did that for me. And I remembered Luther. We have to be loyal in life, you know. Theres something called loyalty with these folks.
And I might have made a mistake and Ill be honest I might have made a mistake. Because, you know, heres a story, if Luther doesnt win, theyre not going to say we picked up 25 points in a very short period of time. Theyre going to say Donald Trump, the president of the United States, was unable to pull his candidate across the line. It is a terrible, terrible moment for Trump.
This is total embarrassment. I mean, these are bad people. And by the way, both good men, both good men. And you know what? And I told Luther, I have to say this, if his opponent wins, Im going to be here campaigning like hell for him.
But I have to say this, and you understand this and just look at the polls, Luther will definitely win.  You know what Im saying. Roy has a very good chance of not winning in the general election. Its all about the general.
Dont forget, we dont stop here. You have an election coming up the day this is over. So this is over on Tuesday. On Wednesday morning, the new race begins.
Youve got to beat a Democrat. Luther is going to win easily and Roys going to have a hard time winning. But I will be backing him if he wins. I will be backing him, OK? Ill tell you that.
And just like I backed Huntsville -- because, you know, if you look at Huntsville, billions and billions of dollars from the and to the Army missile defense, what youre going -- how important.
By the way, by the way, how important are those words now when you hear "missile defense?"" Thank you very much
Again, if the other candidate had won against me, that would have gone way down. It was going way down. You dont know what were doing. Were rebuilding the military at a level to which its never been before, were rebuilding.
But that would have gone way, way down. And then you look at, as an example, the new FBI facility thats being build. Great, great. You look at NASA, how about NASA? Billions of dollars.
And Richard Shelby, by the way, has been a big help on this, I have to tell you, a big help.  Hes been a big help. But I will say this. Were spending a tremendous amount of money in Alabama and you are doing great.
And as long as Im president, you are going to have so much money spent here. And you know what? Lots of other states also. Were bringing back jobs. Were bringing back companies, companies are not building in other areas, in some cases theyve already started the plant and theyre not, theyre coming back.
Im renegotiating NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever made. Its one of the worst trade deals ever made.  We stopped other trade deals. We are doing a job.
We are -- Ill tell you what, we have jobs and companies pouring back into this country like they havent seen, the lowest unemployment in almost 17 years.  The most number of jobs. The most number of jobs in the history of our country. Now, with all of that being said, we have a lot of people that want to work, we have a lot of people that have given up on finding jobs.
Those people are going to be taken care of. Thats one of the reasons that we, we as a group, thats why we won. One of the reasons. I think we won because of the military.
I think we won because of the vets. I think we won because of the evangelicals. I mean, take a look at that, right?  But I had to tell that story about Luther because, you know what, you go back and tell it, I thought it was really cool. So I said Ill be there.
And then I saw some things that I didnt like. He was down a little further than I liked. I said Im not sure. And I said, Luther, you have got what it takes.
You have really got it and lets go. And that was two months ago. And youve got yourself an even race. If you guys go out and vote, if he gets out the vote, youre going to win.
Youre going to have a great senator.  Youre going to have a great senator. And he wont only be great, hell be the tallest senator in the history of the United States Senate. Its OK, thats not so bad, right?  And Shelbys pretty tall, too, by the way.
But he is going to be great because hes tough on crime, hes tough on borders.  Dont worry, dont even think about it. And you know who I have here tonight? General John Kelly who headed up homeland security.  And what a job he did on the borders.
Wheres General? Where is he? Where is he? General, come up here quick. Come here. Come here. Four-star, come here, come, come, come, come, come.
This guy, what a great man this is. No games, you know? You know the expression? Theres no games being played. Four-star Marine, there are very few, four-star general.  He just wants to work.
Hes done a great job. Four-star Marine, thats good. But what he did on the borders, and this is without the wall -- by the way, the wall is happening, folks, OK. Believe me, the wall is happening.
In fact, you probably saw, you know, we have a wall up there now and were renovating it already, its being made pristine, perfect, just as good as new, although we may go a little bit higher than that, but thats OK. And were building samples of the new wall. You know, it has to be a see-through wall. I dont know if you know this, frankly, I didnt know it until about a year ago, as much as I say.
If you cant have vision through it you dont know whos on the other side. Lets say we build a pre-cast concrete wall and now we have people on the other side. Literally, I was given an example. Its so bad, its going to stop drugs, its going to stop a lot of bad things because the drug epidemic in this country is out of control, were going to stop it.
And I called the other day, I spoke to your governor. I said, how are you doing? She said, well, we have about 17 million people that just entered Alabama for shelter.
Were going to stop it.  But they would literally -- so you have a concrete wall, and thats what I do best, thats what I do, thats what I really do, although we done a good job at politics, too. In all fairness, weve only been doing it for about two years.  But I do best, I build.
So you have a concrete wall and you have Mexico, wonderful, wonderful place, Mexico, and you have over here the United States. But you cant see anything, right? So now they take drugs literally and they throw it, a hundred pounds of drugs. They throw it over the wall, they have catapults, but they throw it over the wall and it lands and it hits somebody on the head, you dont even know theyre there. Believe it or not, this is the kind of stuff that happens.
So you need to have a great wall, but it has to be see-through. We are now looking at samples. We have four samples that have already been built, General, right? Theyve been built. And were looking at different samples already of see-through walls.
And I think also I have to be honest with you, a see-through wall would look better. You know, you dont have that whatever it might be. But we are looking at four different samples built by four great companies, four different concepts. Theyre just about completed.
Im going to go out and look at them personally, Im going to pick the right one. Were renovating the existing wall. And we are going to have as much wall as we need. You dont need it all the way.
You know, you have 2,000 miles, you dont need it because you have a lot of natural barriers, et cetera. Somebody said, well, what are you going to do? Are you going to build that wall in the middle of the river that nobody can go in? Are you going to build that wall on the mountain? I said you dont need the wall on the mountain, you have a mountain which is a wall. But were going to build the wall, its coming along great. Were soon going to have the final choices done.
And the renovations will be done, I would say, within the next six or seven months. Were spending a tremendous amount of money and were going to have that. So I just wanted to let you know where we are.  So were very, very happy about that, you know, because every once in a while you hear, well, you know, he doesnt really want to build the wall.
I say, excuse me? Thats the great thing about Twitter, OK?  You know, when the press is dishonest, which is most of the time, and when they say, like, I dont want to build a wall, I can tweet that was a false story, boom, boom, boom.  No. You know, its really not a question about we want to do a wall, but we really have to do a wall in order to stop the drugs in particular. And weve been dealing with ICE, weve been dealing with the Border Patrol.
They both endorsed me, first time theyve ever endorsed a candidate for president. And these guys know better than anybody. They know better than the architects, better than the consultants.  This country used to go out and get consultants.
Theyd spend a fortune on consultants to say what to do, how to build it and everything. They didnt have a clue. They got out of the Harvard school of something and theyd write about a wall. Let me just tell you, the best guys to tell you what to do are the Border Patrol or ICE.
These are the guys that know. And you know what it costs? It costs nothing, nothing. We get it free and theyre happy to do it. I was with them two weeks ago.
Theyre happy to do it. So its really great and its just going to be a very important element to making America great again, like your hat.  When it comes to reforming Washington and taking on the bureaucracy, Im telling you, because Ive seen him, hes tough as hell, Luther is your man. Luther wants to end business as usual, stop the insider dealing and Luther Strange is determined to drain that swamp.
Luthers been fighting hard for the people of Alabama and for the people of the United States since his first job in office. Now, I have to tell you something, he hasnt been there very long. And again, he doesnt know those people. He had never met them, he doesnt know them, and they cant saddle him with it, but he doesnt know those people.
But Luther has worked so hard. And I know the ones that work hard and I know the ones that dont work hard. In fact, I was talking about it with Richard before. Dont worry, Richard, Im not going to give away any of these secrets.
But we were talking about it. We were talking about -- hes a hard worker, Richard, I want to tell you that. Hes been working hard for 34 years.  But we were talking, we were talking about who are the smart ones, who are the hardworking ones.
We talked about who are the less- smart ones, too. I learned a lot. Thats a lot of knowledge. But Luther shares our convictions and our vision.
And maybe most importantly, he shares our agenda. Remember, hes going to win the race. Hes going to win the race.  And Im not talking here, Im talking against the Democrat, which starts very quickly.
But its why we need each and every one of you to get a friend, go out, get a family member, get the whole family and bring them out to vote for "Big Luther"" Strange. Youve got to vote for him
Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners when somebody disrespects our flag to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, hes fired, hes fired.  You know, some owner is going to do that.
Hes going to say that guy that disrespects our flag, hes fired.  And that owner, they dont know it, they dont know it, theyre friends of mine, many of them, they dont know it, theyll be the most popular person for a week, theyll be the most popular person in this country because thats a total disrespect of our heritage, thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for, OK? Everything that we stand for.
And I know we have freedoms and we have freedom of choice and many, many different freedoms. But you know what? Its still totally disrespectful. And, you know, when the NFL ratings are down massively, massively...  The NFL ratings are down massively.
Now, the number-one reason happens to be that they like watching whats happening on, you know, with yours truly.  They like whats happening. Because, you know, today if you hit too hard, right, they hit too hard, 15 yards, throw him out of the game. They had that last week.
I watched for a couple of minutes and two guys just really a beautiful tackle, boom, 15 yards. The referee gets on television, his wife it sitting at home, shes so proud of him, theyre ruining the game. Right?  Theyre ruining the game. Hey, look, thats what they want to do, they want to hit, OK? They want to hit.
But it is hurting the game. But you know whats hurting the game more than that? When people like yourselves turn on television and you see those people taking the knee when theyre playing our great "National Anthem.""  The only thing you could do better is if you see it
Not the same game anymore anyway. Now, one of the things weve done, and when I say "we"" its us
Right? We cherish our magnificent Constitution and we believe judges must interpret the Constitution as written and that includes defending, as I just said, our great Second Amendment.  We support the rule of law and we stand strong with the incredible men and women of law enforcement.  We protect our citizens, uphold our traditions and we will always defend our borders.  These are Alabama values.
I understand the people of Alabama. I feel like Im from Alabama, frankly.  Isnt it a little weird when a guy who lives on 5th Avenue in the most beautiful apartment youve ever seen comes to Alabama and Alabama loves that guy. I mean, its crazy, its crazy.
Its crazy. But I do, I understand your values, I love your values and those are the values that I believe in. Those are the values, those are the values that made this country. Those are the values that made this country great.
Those are the values. I understand those values.  But as you know, these values have been under attack for many years in Washington. And thats why we need a person like Luther Strange.
We need him. Youve got to get out and vote.  You know, I think if everybody in this room gets out and votes, Luther, you win easily. Youve got to vote.
Just get out and vote. Got to get out and vote.  So Luthers not in Washington to serve the special interests, like a lot of people. Even the way he handled that thing with me.
He didnt ask me, oh, youve got to do this and that. In the end, what did he do? He got better. I would never have done that. Lets say he was difficult.
I would never, but he never went quid pro quo, he just treated me great. And I called him, I said, you want me to help you? He couldnt believe it. He said, why? I said because you gave me the coolest answer Ive had in a long time. Thats why Im here, he didnt ask me.
The only mistake he made, I shouldnt say this, he said, sir, we have a venue that holds a thousand people. I said, Luther, thats no good, a thousand people, we can do much better than that. And then we came up with this job and we are packed. And by the way, outside there are thousands of people that cant get in, they do not have your real estate ability.
OK? Thousands, youve got thousands of people outside.  Thousands. And they may be listening because we put some big speakers out there and I hope theyre going to vote for Luther. They may not be too happy.
But I think they will. So Luther came to Washington to serve you and to represent you. And I can tell you that when "Big Luther
We dont have to go into it because a lot of them are now friends of mine, a lot of them are friends of mine. So nobody ever called you "Big Luther?"" I think its a great name. The guy is 7 feet tall. What are you going to do? Call him -- I can never call him little Luther
But when he walks in, everybody knows that Alabama has arrived.  Luther was a very, very advanced Eagle Scout who has not spent his lifetime in politics. He only entered public life in recent years. And hes been in Washington for even less time than me, so he doesnt know all these people that hes supposed to know.
He has his own mind. He has the mind that you want. In his short time in public office, Luther has proved that hes not beholden to anyone and not afraid to take on anyone. And Ive seen it.
As your attorney general in Alabama, Luther won over 25 public corruption convictions.  And now hes brought that same political courage to Washington. And I have to tell you, friends of mine, because I have a lot of friends in Alabama.
And friends of mine have told me very strongly that if Luther wasnt appointed to office for the short term, if he just said hes going to run when you have to run, which is now, hed be leading every poll by 50 points, hed be killing everybody. But the fact that he got appointed hurt him.
In fact, he was thinking about not accepting that. But if Luther just didnt take an appointment, if he just ran, there wouldnt even be a contest. Nobody could come close to him. So its one of those things.
But I can tell you personally, because Ive been dealing with him for the months that hes been there, Im very lucky and this country is very lucky that he did take that appointment because hes done a hell of a job.  And thats what we need in Washington, people who have the courage to stand strong for our values, our family, our nation, people who have the courage to challenge a failed system.
Look with Obamacare, Ive been listening for seven years as many of these people -- now, Richard kept voting against it, but many of these kept saying repeal and replace, repeal and replace. Then they finally have now -- they didnt care, nobody cared because they had a president that wasnt going to sign it and they didnt have the Senate, so it didnt matter.
So it didnt take much courage. So they were getting all these great votes, you know, like, I think they voted, what, 61 times, like, 61 times to repeal and replace. They finally get a president who will sign the legislation and they dont have the guts to vote for it. OK? They dont have the guts to vote for it.
And I was told congratulations, you won, you won. You know why I won? Because the Electoral College is a very special thing. And I decided, very, I think, intelligently, to campaign in the states that you have to win for the Electoral College victory that you need. You know, its very simple, very simple.
I took a pass on a lot of states, the Electoral College, and Ive never really been in favor of it, but now I appreciate it. No, no, I tell you what. To me, winning the popular vote is easier because you go to New York, you go to California, you go to Texas. The beauty with the Electoral College is I was going to Maine, I was going all over.
I was going to smaller states It brings the whole country into play. It brings certain states into play that would never really be thought of.  But I focused heavily on Pennsylvania and North Carolina. I focused very heavily here.
But I actually made one speech here. And I said, fellow and folks, do you mind if I dont come back for a while because we have, like, a 38-point lead and Id much rather spend my time in Florida, which we won quite easily, and Pennsylvania and North Carolina and lots of other places.  So, Alabama, you were great. I mean, we won by so much.
So the Electoral College is actually something Ive come to respect. But its sort of, like, if youre a 100-yard dash guy or if youre a long- distance runner, you train differently. Well, if youre going for the Electoral College, thats a much different race. So if Hillary runs again in four years, which I hope she does, were going to teach her...
...were going to teach her to spend more time in Michigan. Were going to teach her to go to Wisconsin. Were going to teach her to spend a little more capability in Pennsylvania, North Carolina and Florida, which she lost, and she actually spent a tremendous amount of money. So I just want to -- because, you know, you hear so much about this.
Remember this: If youre going for the Electoral College, its a much different race. You dont spend your time in California and New York and these different places. You spend your time in Iowa and Ohio. Remember? You cant win unless you win Ohio.
Well, we won Ohio by a lot because I spent a lot of time up there.  But I would rather have the popular vote count because for me it would be easier than winning the Electoral College, which they said a Republican could not win, if you remember. Remember, they said there is no way to 270 for Trump. Thats why I went to Maine four times because I needed one, I needed one.
They said there is no way. Well, we ended up with 306. There is no way. I guess they were right.
No, no, Luther, they were right. They were 100 percent right. There is no way to 270, yes, but there is a way to 306. OK? So we won by a lot.
But when you hear all this nonsense, when youre a golfer and you have match play or youre a golfer and you have stroke play, different tournament, you train differently. Same with runners, same with lots of other things. So they have to learn their lesson. They have to campaign in areas that really matter.
But we had such a great victory it was just something that was awe-inspiring and something that I think everybody in this room will never, ever forget. And I appreciate the fact that the people of Alabama were with me right from the first day. And they said to me dont come back, go to those other states that you have to work. I appreciate it.
And by the way, folks, just in case youre, like, curious, no, Russia did not help me. OK? Russia.  I call it the Russian hoax, one of the great hoaxes. Actually, thats the thing I was thinking about.
Thats the thing that the Democrats did best. They lost the election and they didnt know what happened. And they needed an excuse, so they said Russia. And then they said, wait a minute, wait a minute, Russia and Trump.
Honestly? Its the thing they did best. They did a rotten job of running. But to convince people about this hoax, that was probably the thing that they did best, but it is one great hoax. No, Russia did not help me, that I can tell you, OK.
Any Russians in the audience? Are there any Russians in the audience please? I dont see too many Russians. I didnt see too many Russians in Pennsylvania. I didnt see too many Russians. We need people in this country who have the courage to say what they mean, to do what they say and never, ever to back down.
As your attorney general, Luther helped you lead the fight in court against the Obama administrations big power grabs. That includes challenging the EPAs clean power plan, which, by the way, did you see what I did to that? Boom, gone. Look at that guy, he knows. Gone.
And I did that one without Luther. But he defended it and got rid of a lot of things on a state level. And also, Ive defended and Luther has defended so vigorously religious liberty from Obamacare and the fighting of Obamas and the administrations dangerous, dangerous, really almost you could say inhumane plan on refugees. Its inhumane.
When I opened my election, I talked about what was happening, the viciousness of what was happening. A lot of people thought it was tough, turned out to be true. In fact, it turned out to be understated, not overstated. And that was a big part of our success.
Since the day "Big Luther"" arrived in the United States Senate
Im just telling you he doesnt know him, he just just got there. I said, how well do you know him? He said I just met him, because he just got there. Hes been there for a very short period of time. And in fact, he just came out against, and he was against it before, but he just came out against that totally ridiculous rule, the filibuster rule.
Its ridiculous.  So we have 52 senators. And on a lot of legislation, you need 60 votes. That means we have to get eight Democrats.
And then they get upset with me when I go to see Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer, who are very nice, they get upset. Why did you see them? I said because this rule is crazy. We have 260 bills. Many of those bills, not all of them, because they can use reconciliation for those of you that are interested in that, but thats a trick, thats just a trick, many of those bills will never get passed, most of them wont because you cannot get 60 votes, you cannot.
It means that eight Democrats control the Senate. Now, I think were going to pick up seats in 18. Im going to work very hard. I think were going to pick up Democratic seats, I believe that.
Were going to pick up Democratic seats, but they have to get rid of the filibuster rule. Basically, we cant go to 60, we want 51. Thats how we have Judge Gorsuch. If we didnt have that, you would not have Judge Gorsuch right now on the Supreme Court.
Luther was with us on withdrawing the United States from the deeply unfair, job-killing Paris climate accord. OK?  You know, it sounds so nice, but it was a killer. It was a killer for our country and it was very unfair. As an example, we kick in now -- China, who I love right now, this week.
Dont forget, that was a big thing. Got a 15 to nothing vote twice. And I must say, Russia and China both came along, they both came along, that was a great thing.  And maybe more importantly, maybe its more important, but maybe more importantly that when China did this banking thing, thats so big.
Lets see. Ill let you know if its big in a little while. Lets see what happens, OK? Lets see what happens. But certainly, its never been done and I think youre going to see some good things.
I think China wants to get this problem over with, they dont need it. Thats their part of the world, they dont need it. They do not need this problem. And theyre very smart and theyre good people.
And the president is a really good man and he loves China. But its good for China getting rid of that menace. Its really good for China, believe me.  Luthers with us on cracking down on dangerous sanctuary cities that release criminal aliens into our communities.
Whats that all about?  And by the way, Jeff Sessions is working very hard on that, really hard, really hard and effectively, very effectively.  Luther is with us on cutting taxes and bringing jobs back to America. Hes with us on giving our military the tools, unlimited. He wants the military taken care of and funding the fight so that we win without question and thats where were going, $700 billion.
He not only has my endorsement, remember this, he also has the endorsement of my great friend and vice president, Mike Pence.  He has the endorsement of the National Rifle Association, the NRA. Thats a biggie, thats a big one. Luther, thats big.
Hes got the endorsement of the National Right to Life and the Alabama farmers, thats big stuff.  Those a big endorsements. That NRA endorsement, Im telling you, that is a powerful endorsement. With Luther Strange, you dont just send a message to Washington, you send a fighter to change Washington the way we all know it can be.
Since Election Day on November 8th, weve already achieved historic wins for the American people. The stock market has reached its highest point in history.  They hate it. They hate to hear that, oh.
Were up, like, 22 percent since November, 22 percent since Election Day. I think its even more than that. But its reached the highest point, think of it, the highest point. And unemployment is at the lowest level its been for 16 years, close to 17.
Most importantly to me, and I have to say it and Ill say it again because I said it at the beginning, but I have to sort of wrap it up and say it again, companies are flowing back into our country. They want to be here.
I was with one of the great gentlemen that I became friendly with, a leader of a major, major country, so I wont tell you because I said Id keep it private, so, you know, there are only probably a lot of people watching on television. Oh, look at all those red lights.
Its always fun to see a red light. Like, CNN has a red light on. And then I start saying its fake news and you see that light go off so fast.  By the way, do you think they showed the room? Look, do you think they showed up the little nooks and crannies of this? Do you think they showed the room? I dont think so.
If theres an empty seat, theyll show that empty seat. Two people, they got up, they went to the bathroom, theyre coming back in five, they show those empty seats every single time.  Fake news. So Im really proud because a record, in the history of our country, stock market, tremendous gains.
People that run companies, that truly hate me, they now love me. Theyre coming up, Mr. President, sir, Im making them all, everybody -- and that means jobs, it means everybody. Im serious.
People that truly dislike your president, the heads of these companies are coming up and hugging me and kissing me and, oh, they are just -- but Im not doing it for them, Im doing it for jobs, Im doing it for the country. That I can tell you.
Doing it for the country. I told you many times during the campaign, but I told you many times, and this is not even a choice, were renegotiating NAFTA and were either going to get a fair deal or were going to terminate NAFTA.
Its very simple, OK? Because its one of the worst deals ever, ever negotiated.  One of the worst deals ever negotiated. Every day I am keeping my promise. We have done so much.
You know, they dont like to say it, but weve passed over 50 pieces of legislation. That means going through Congress, that means getting approved by the House and the Senate and signing. Thats not including all of the executive orders Ive signed. Thats not including the fact that we have reduced unnecessary regulations to a point that this country hasnt seen in years.
And were not finished yet.  But one of my biggest promises has been to our great veterans. And we are doing one of our best jobs there.  We are doing one of our best jobs with our veterans.
We publish online wait times at every VA facility, opened the promised White House VA hotline, extended Veterans Choice. Do you know what that is? The veterans, our greatest people, these are our greatest, our bravest, our most wonderful people.  And in some cases, they get older and things happen. Theyre waiting in line for seven days, for nine days, for 16 days.
And in some cases, they die. In some cases, they could have a simple procedure, they can have a simple prescription and it takes 11 or 12 days to get off line to see the doctor. By the time they get to the doctor, theyre terminal. So I said, without knowing much, but having a lot of common sense and very good up here, always, always...
But I said, you know, like you people, I said that doesnt make sense if theyre waiting in line. Can you imagine, we have a lot of people that are very successful people here, can you imagine going to your doctor and having him say youll have to wait for 11 days?
If I have to wait for two seconds I go crazy. Hopefully, we dont have to see too many doctors, thats even better, right? But they wait for days and days. And now they go, right outside, they go to a doctor in the area, we pay the bill and its the least expensive thing we can do and we save everybodys life and everybodys happy.
Everybodys happy. And when I first heard, because Ive only been doing this for a little while, but when I first heard of the problem, thats what I said. Why arent they just going to see a doctor well pay? And weve got to negotiate with the doctors pretty careful because, you know, I know a lot about doctors where they charge a lot of money, so weve got to be a little careful. But now the people are happy.
We are doing so many things. We have VA worker accountability. For 40 years theyve been trying to get it passed, they couldnt. I will not blame the unions and I will not blame civil service.
But that was the problem, OK? You have the unions, you have the -- they didnt want it. For 40 years, they couldnt get it passed. So you would have people working in the VA who were sadists, who would abuse our great, great people, our great veterans. By the way, 25 years before, they would have had their ass kicked by the same person that theyre abusing.
They would have been in trouble.  They would have been in trouble. Twenty-five years earlier, they wouldnt be doing it. But thats the way it is.
But theyre sadists or theyre doing a bad job or theyre not working. You couldnt fire them. I had passed the VA Accountability Act. We have a great man, David Shulkin, Dr.
David Shulkin, hes running the VA. He has done more in eight months than theyve done at the VA for years and years and years. And its really getting good over there, so very proud of him because I made that promise.  And in the best tradition of Americas greatest leaders, were standing up for American workers and defending American jobs and American industry.
Were building our future with American hands, American labor and American iron, aluminum and steel. We will buy American, we will hire American. In first month in office...  ...I withdrew the United States from the disastrous and job- killing, it would have been a disaster, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
A great ripoff. You want to see jobs leave the country, sign that. And they were going to sign that as fast as they could. That was a disaster for this country.
Were eliminating unnecessary regulations so we can create more jobs and wealthy right here in America. Ive ended the Obama administrations war on coal and were putting our wonderful coal miners back to work producing beautiful clean coal.
And heres one that nobody had the guts to do and I did it in my first very few days in office. I authorized the construction of the Keystone Pipeline and the Dakota Access Pipeline, over 50,000 jobs, 50,000 beautiful construction jobs.
And environmentally better, much better. Weve increased our military and defense budget to the highest level its been probably ever.  Its going to be over $700 billion. Were going to rebuild it.
We are rebuilding. Were ordering new fighters, were ordering new jets. You know whats been happening. The jets are so old that the father flew them and then the son goes into the Air Force and he flies the same plane.
True. And weve committed to expanding and improving a state-of-the-art missile defense system. Thank you very much, Huntsville, Alabama. Thank you.
Thank you, Huntsville. Right?  Its amazing the way all of a sudden missile defense system sounds so good. And by the way, these systems, I watch them and I see whats being developed. I mean, theyre taking out rockets that are going so fast and the percentage of success is so high, its so brilliant what we can do so that we can do what we have to do to have a safe country.
So I want to thank you, Huntsville, because youre a big part of it.  Weve just brought back the National Space Council to restore Americas legacy of leadership in space, it leads to so many things.  The council will be chaired by Vice President Pence who is visiting your NASA facility in Huntsville on Monday to get you out to vote. Thats why, get you out to vote.
And were making our communities safe again by going after violent criminals and putting dangerous offenders behind bars. Theyre going in fast, theyre going in fast.  We have the backs of our police officers, our ICE officers and our Border Patrol officers. And we have their backs 100 percent, just like they take care of us.
One by one were finding, and I mean in large numbers, and our guys are much tougher than their guys, were finding the gang members, the drug dealers and the criminals who prey on our people. Were throwing them the hell out of our country and we will not let them back in. They dont come back in anymore. Its a different age.
They dont come back in. We also understand that immigration security is a national, its really a national treasure, but its a national security. We need national security for safety. Were going to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of our country.
Sorry, sorry.  Call up some of the other countries in the world, say, how are you doing, folks? Not so good. Were creating an immigration system that puts American workers and American families first. Were moving quickly to pass a massive tax cut and simplification for the middle class.
We want new tax returns, we want simplification, we want reform. And you know what we really want? We want massive tax cuts. Thats what were doing for business, thats what were doing for the middle class.  If we want to restore American prosperity, we need tax reform that is pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-worker, pro-family and pro-American.
The United States currently has the highest business tax rates anywhere in the world, 60 percent higher than other developed countries. This is a massive economic disadvantage for America costing us millions and millions of jobs and trillions of dollars. Under our plan that youre going to see next week -- enjoy it, OK, enjoy it. Youre going to love it...
...itll be the biggest tax cut. Ive got to get it approved by Richard and by Luther, but I have a feeling youll be OK. Luther, you promise? Because if you dont vote for it, Im leaving right now. Im going to take away -- if he doesnt vote for it, Im taking away the endorsement.
No, but under Luther and under Richard, were going to have one of the lowest tax rates in the developed world, bringing back our jobs, our companies, bringing them back to our shores. With Luthers help, were going to reform our tax code to make American business competitive again so that American workers and American companies can win again.
Were going to bring back to our country three, four, maybe five, nobody even knows what the number is, but many trillions of dollars that is currently parked overseas. And it will be invested right here in the good old USA.
Its coming back into our country. Right now its impossible to get it back.  Were committed to protecting small businesses and family farmers by ending the death tax on estates.  You lose your farm, you lose your business, you cant pay the tax, were getting rid of the death tax.
In addition to passing historic tax reforms, Luther and I are totally dedicated to repealing and replacing Obamacare. Now, I have to tell you, maybe were going to do it now. Its a little tougher without McCains vote, Ill be honest, its a little tougher, but weve got some time. Were going to go back.
You know, its like a boxer, they get knocked down, get up, get knocked down, get up, get knocked down, and then the bad ones they stay on the stool and they say we quit, we quit. The great ones get up and they end up winning. Thats what were going to do.  We might have to go back again and again.
I mean, like, we may make it this time. But the most well be is one or two votes short. You cant quit when you have one or two votes short, you cant do it. And those people are not going to be liked by the communities that they come from.
Because in most cases, in I think almost all of the cases, they got elected on the basis of repealing and replacing and they are not doing a service to the people that they represent.  Luther Strange fought against Obamacare as attorney general of Alabama and he fought it well. And hes fighting Obamacare in the Senate and hes going to keep fighting because were going to win. Its going to be gone.
And were going to have great health care in this country.  Your premiums are surging, your deductibles are through the roof. Alabamas way up, but we have states that are up 150 percent. We have one state, the state of Alaska, its up more than 200 percent.
And Im having a hard time getting a certain vote, but shes a good person and I think shes going to come through. I mean, if you look, Alaska is up over 200 percent. So that means Obamacare is no good. So we shouldnt have a hard time getting her vote and I think shes going to come through.
I hope so. Insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, choices are disappearing. Congress must do its job by ending the Obamacare nightmare.  So to deliver for American families, we are also working to pass the RAISE Act, legislation that would end chain migration and switch our country to a merit-based immigration system, merit, merit, merit, people that will help our country, people that will help our country.
We have Tom Cotton, we have David Perdue, two great senators, and theyre working on it. The RAISE Act would keep new immigrants from going on welfare for five years. Isnt that nice? They dont walk over and say Im going on welfare. Isnt that nice.
Maybe keep them from ever going on welfare. And would require them to support themselves and their families financially.  Its time to create an immigration system that serves the interests of the United States of America. We also want an infrastructure bill that generates $1 trillion of investment in rebuilding our country with American hands and skill and grit.
We want to lift Americans from welfare to work, from dependence to independence and from poverty to prosperity.  Right? We want every American child to grow up learning the dignity of work, the pride of a paycheck and the satisfaction of a job well done.
We want our citizens to go to work every morning in a job they love, supporting their families and lifting up their communities, like you people have done so well. But we can only bring prosperity back to our country and hope to our struggling communities if we can take our America first agenda, if we can take our make America great again agenda back to Washington and drive it to victory.
We can only achieve those historic legislative wins, and weve had a lot of them in a short period of time, if we have patriots in Congress who are willing to stand up and fight for what we believe. And that guy can do it.  We can only win those fights and we can only drain the swamp if we have smart, tough and tenacious leaders who know who they represent and they know how to deliver. Luther Strange is our man.
Hes our man. Youve got to get out and vote.  I mean, again, Im taking a big risk because if Luther doesnt make it theyre going to go after me, Luther, these people, these very dishonest people. Theyre going to say Trump, Trump, Trump, OK? But weve done great together and we have done great over the last two months right here.
This is our moment, this is your moment. This is a big day because you have a lot of people banking on somebody elses victory and then thinking theyre going to become Democrats in the state of Alabama. And I dont think thats a good thing.  Thats not a good thing.
If this man wins, that race is over. If somebody else wins, I will tell you, thats going to be a very tough race. Every day, we must fight for the change youve been waiting for your entire life, for a government that serves you, that protects your family, that upholds your laws and that honors your faith and that defends values and that always puts the needs of our citizens first.  We are Americans and the future belongs to us.
The future belongs to all of you. But we have got to go out and take it. We have got to go out and earn it. We have got to go out and vote.
If we dont vote, its not going to happen. So on Tuesday, vote for your country, vote for your family, vote for your victory, vote for Luther Strange, hes a phenomenal person.
