Donald Trump|Interview: Colleen Marshall of WCMH Columbus Interviews Donald Trump|October 20, 2016
Hi everybody. Good to see you. Colleen.
Yes, hes excellent by the way, I have to tell you and maybe in Ohio, its fine, but in many places throughout the country they do have problems and Im actually here to talk about it during my speech, so I think youll find it very interesting.
Well, you have a lot of evidence and Im going to be talking about it during my speech, so youll watch.
Well I think theyre doing themselves a tremendous disservice. Were actually substantially in Ohio. We have tremendous support from the people. And I think they are doing themselves a tremendous disservice. We have a couple of cases where people that arent supporting me, theyre losing and Im winning states. And youre seen that. Its all over the place.
So, you know, I was very disappointed in Rob, but hes free to do whatever he has to do. Youre doing fantastically well in Ohio. Rasmussen just came out the poll. Were 3 up nationwide. And IBJ just came out, and were one up, and that was the most accurate poll of the season last year. So I think were doing really well.
No, I totally disagree. Were going to lower taxes very substantially for Ohio and everybody else. Our taxes... were the highest tax nation anywhere in the world. So were going to lower taxes very very substantially. Were also lowering business taxes. The businesses now are leaving. Theyre going to Mexico and every place else, because the taxes are so high
So when we do this massive tax cut, this massive regulatory cut, which is a tremendous problem, were going to have jobs coming back in. We have a GDP of around 1 percent. You saw the last quarter. It was around 1 percent which is record setting low, almost record-setting low.
Were going to have gross... look, were going to have a tremendous GDP. Its going to be maybe 4 percent, and it could even be higher than that. If that happens, then our nation will be booming again. We have the weakest recovery in our nation since the depression. Since the Great Depression. People are looking for jobs.
Look at the kind of crowds were getting as an example right here. Theyre looking for help. Theyre looking for the jobs. Our manufacturing has been stripped out of our country. Our jobs have been taken out of our country. So. My plan is lowering taxes. Hillary Clinton wants to raise taxes they dont like her plan very much.
My plan will work. The experts are not really experts. Theyve been wrong so much over the years. My plan is the largest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. Ronald Reagans plan worked Mine is similar. My tax cut could even be a little bit larger, but I think its going to work, and its going to be great, and its going to put people back to work. And its going to stop companies from leaving Ohio and other places.
Thank you very much.
I am the least racist person youve ever met.
