Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in High Point, NC|September 20, 2016
Wow, such young people in this room. This is a young group of people, right? Ill tell you what -- and I want to thank High Point, because its a great school -- great school. Thank you.
Really nice. And the big thing is, early voting starts here October 20th, so, ideally, you get out and you vote, right? You get out early.
Dont wait. November 8th is the big day, but dont wait. October 20th you start early voting, so if you can, get it in there and then you can just relax. Although, on November 8th, you shouldnt relax. You should get all of your friends to vote. You know that, right?
Okay. So its wonderful to be back in North Carolina; an incredible place. We won this in the primaries, as you remember, and it was a big victory. And so I have a warm, warm spot in my heart. That was an important victory.
Come November 8th, were going to win this state, and were going to win back the White House. Its about time.
Were going to win back the White House. And were going to bring back your jobs, which have been ripped out of our country. Were bringing back your jobs. Were going to cut your taxes, massively.
And, you know, people dont understand, but Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes -- very substantial tax increase.
So, people dont understand that. Were going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals. Were going to protect our country from radical, Islamic terrorism.
That ones not even close. Over the weekend, there were Islamic terrorist attacks in Minnesota, New York City and in New Jersey. These attacks were made possible because of our extremely open immigration system, which fails to properly vet and screen the individuals or families coming into our country.
Attack after attack, from 9/11 to San Bernardino to Orlando, we have seen how failure to screen who is entering the United States puts all of our citizens in great danger.
So let me state this very, very clearly -- and, as you know -- at least, most of you know -- Ive been saying this for a long time. This didnt just happen, like, yesterday. Immigration security is national security.
Now, I assume shell be changing this, but you know whats been happening. My opponent has the most open-borders policy of anyone ever to seek the office of Presidency -- its not even close.
As Secretary of State, she allowed thousands of criminal aliens to be released into our communities because their home countries wouldnt take them back. They were too bad. They didnt want them, so we took them. Now, Obama wants to bring in, as of two days ago, an additional 110,000 refugees. And Hillary wants --
I mean, honestly? Honestly? Its hard to believe. And Hillary wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees. Altogether, Hillary Clintons plan would bring in 620,000 refugees in her first term, alone, with no effective way to screen or vet them. Her plan would cost $400 billion in terms of lifetime welfare and entitlement costs.
This isnt just a matter of terrorism; but, also a matter of quality of life. And many of you are just starting off on this incredible journey, and it is about quality of life -- and its about safety -- its about safety. Its very important.
We have to have a safe country. We want to make sure we are only admitting people into our country who love our country.
My highest duty as President is to protect our citizens and to uphold the Constitution of the United States. I will honor that duty to the fullest extent every single day, and I will never waiver in that sacred obligation. Its just a plain fact that our current immigration system makes no real attempt to determine the views of the people entering our country. We have no idea who they are, what they think.
Since 9/11, hundreds of immigrants and their children have been implicated in terrorism and terrorist-related activity within the United States. Now we learn that another 858 immigrants -- this was just the other day -- from dangerous countries have slipped into our country and been granted citizenship, despite the fact that they were supposed to be deported.
They probably pressed the wrong button on a computer. So they were supposed to be deported and they were given citizenship. Welcome to America.
Oh, were going to build a wall. Were going to build -- .
Were going to build a wall. Were going to build the wall, Mexicos going to pay for the wall -- 100 percent.
One hundred percent. But the over 800 people really had nothing to do with the wall. You know, they had to do with a lot of other things, and its a very, very sad -- can you imagine? We made them citizens and they were getting ready for deportation. So either something was very wrong, or they pressed the wrong button on a computer; but, either way, cant have it.
Altogether, there are nearly one million individuals in the United States with deportation orders who have not yet been removed. In the 20th century, the United States defeated fascism, Nazism and Communism. Now, we must defeat radical Islamic terrorism.
Yet, my opponent wont even say the words radical Islamic terror". In fact
She calls the patriotic Americans who support our campaign -- many of the cops and soldiers -- deplorable" and "irredeemable". ""he calls the patriotic Americans who sup"
Has she ever talked that way about radical Islam or about those who oppose and murder women and gays overseas? No. Has Hillary Clinton ever called people who support these practices deplorable" or irredeemable"? No.""as she ever talked that way about"
In many countries overseas, non-believers face the death penalty; whether its Hillarys condemnation -- I mean, where is it? Where is her condemnation of these people? Where is her condemnation of these countries?
Lets ask Hillary how many people who subscribe to radical Islamic views and support the oppression of non-believers would you call deplorable" or "irredeemable"? Thats a terrible word that hasnt been reported
America can never elect a President like Hillary Clinton who, apparently, with her choice of words, thinks that the decent American citizens are a bigger threat than radical Islam. Cant do this. Anyone who cannot name our enemy is not fit to lead this country. Remember.
And if you cant name your enemy, you dont know what the problem is. And if you dont know what the problem is, youre never going to fix the problem. Anyone who cannot condemn the hatred, oppression and violence of radical Islam lacks the moral clarity to serve as our President.
The Commander-in-Chief of this nation must speak with moral clarity and conviction. Our system of government is the best in the world. And, as your President, I will defend our values and speak out against those who assault our values in any way, shape or form.
Right? Its also time to remember one very important word: accountability. All this disaster with ISIS happened on Hillary Clintons watch -- happened with her. Her bad judgment; her bad decision-making; her policies in Iraq, and Libya, and Syria are responsible for the rise of ISIS.
Her attacks on me are all meant to deflect from her record of unleashing this monstrous evil upon us. Do you ever notice, all she does is attack me, constantly -- attack, attack. Everyone says you should never -- if youre successful, never run for political office; but thats the kind of person you need. I hate to tell you that; thats what we need.
But theyve always said -- all my life --
All of my life Ive heard If youre successful
Her timetable -- and its -- you know, this is so true. Her timetable and withdrawal from Iraq, her push for regime change in Libya and Syria, her open border policies -- these are the actions that unleashed the ISIS disaster.
So she will say and do anything to distract from that record of total failure. And lets see how much she changes her policies over the next couple of days, because shes been for open borders; shes for people pouring in from Syria; shes for all of these things.
I think its getting hard for anybody thats rational, or even sane -- if you look at it. I mean, how can people believe this way? How can they do that? How can people believe this when they see whats happening all over the world?
Look at Germany. Look at what happened to Merkel in the recent election. Look at whats going on. We have to use common sense. We have to be smart. We have to be tough. We have to be vigilant. Her claim that my opposition to radical Islamic terrorism is a recruiting tool. To what -- how does that have to do with -- Im being tough.
Why is that a recruiting? Im much tougher than her on this -- this horrible situation. But she goes around saying its a recruiting tool. You know, somebody gave her that from Madison Avenue. You know what -- thats advertising. They gave her that from -- they said lets call it a recruiting tool."""hy is that a recruiting? Im much"
But -- why, because Im tough, its a recruiting tool? It demonstrates a level ignorance about the terror threat that really is disqualifying for a person seeking the presidency. When she says my opposition to radical Islamic terror provides aid and comfort to the enemy, we know that Hillary Clinton has, once again, demonstrated that shes really unfit for office.
Her comments are not only reckless, but beneath the dignity of the office that she seeks. ISIS is torturing, murdering, executing and exterminating people in a campaign of genocide. And what is Hillary Clinton suggesting? What is she suggesting?
You know what shes -- lets let more people come in -- that we should censor our vocabulary so as not to upset these butchers. I have news for Hillary: refusing to call out radical Islam will not lessen the danger; it will only increase and embolden the danger, just like we have seen during her disastrous and failed term as Secretary of State -- it emboldens them.
Just like Iran is emboldened. You look at Iran; theyre emboldened. They made this deal, and instead of becoming our friend, it looks to me like its gotten worse. The rise of ISIS is Hillary Clintons foreign policy legacy -- one of them -- many others that are not good.
Secretary Clinton has helped to topple regimes, displace millions, and then open the door to ISIS potentially to enter this country. Now, you think of this -- its a disaster.
So how is this policy a smart policy? Clintons decision overseas have left us with the threat we face today and her immigration policies will invite this threat onto our shores, as soon as you -- as sure as you are there, in front of me, standing, watching -- thats going to happen -- right onto our shores. Its happening.
We must stop the massive inflow of refugees, which Hillary Clinton is trying to drastically increase. Now, she may change her mind, because this is whats been happening for a long time, but its getting harder and harder because how are you electable when you have policies like that? We should temporarily suspend immigration entirely from regions where safe and adequate screening -- and I mean extreme vetting -- cannot occur.
Right? Pew polling shows that, in many of the countries from which we draw large numbers of immigrants, extreme views about religion, such as the death penalty for those who leave the faith, are commonplace -- the death penalty.
Its the job -- and really -- of government to admit those, and only those, who we expect to succeed and to flourish here and become part of our incredible country and home.
Hillary Clinton disagrees with this common sense rule, and its one more reason why she will not win the election on November 8th.
Its time to break with the corruption, the bad judgment, and the failures of the past. Its time to have a new American future. We are going to change our immigration system to reflect American values.
Were going to stop the policy of regime change overseas and, instead, focus on working with our allies on a military campaign to utterly destroy ISIS and defeat Islamic terrorism.
This will not only require military warfare, but also financial warfare, cyber warfare, and ideological warfare. But to win this struggle, we need to be strong at home. We are going to rebuild our country. Our infrastructure is a disaster. Our country is a mess, with $20 trillion in debt. Think of it -- $20 trillion.
At the center of the effort will be, in fact, the rebuilding of our inner-cities. Nearly four-in-ten African-American children live in poverty, including 45 percent of African-American children under the age of six -- think of that. Fifty-eight percent of African- American youth are not working. Violent crime rose in Americas 50 largest cities last year. It went through the roof.
Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C., and more than 60 percent in Baltimore. More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January -- think of that -- since January, 3000 people. Thats like worse than the war-torn nations that youre looking at. Thats worse than Afghanistan.
The schools are failing, the jobs are leaving, and millions are trapped in poverty. So to the African-American community, I say Vote for Donald Trump. I will fix it. I will fix it." ""he schools are failing
I will bring back your jobs, I will fix your schools, and I will fight for your safety -- youll be safe. Its time for new civil rights agendas, and one that promises safe communities, great education, and a good-paying job.
Now, I say this, and I say this all the time -- what do you have to lose? Your education is broken, your communities are unsafe, there are no jobs -- its been run by democrats for, sometimes, up to 100 years, unbroken. What do you have to lose? I will fix it.
My whole life --
So true. So true. Theyve really let you down. They ask for your vote. You give them your vote year after year. You give them your vote.
Then, in the presidential -- at least -- and in every other one -- but, in the presidential, they say Hey
And then they come back and they promise you things, and nothing happens, and you vote. So its time to change. What do you have to lose? I will fix it. Remember that.
My whole life --
-- has been about creating jobs -- thousands and thousands of jobs. Hillary Clinton has spent her career destroying jobs. Just look at upstate New York and her terrible trade deals. Hillary supported NAFTA, she supported Chinas entrance into the World Trade Organization -- a disaster.
And she supported the job-killing deal with South Korea that helped make them a fortune, and us, we lost jobs, we lost factory, we lost money. The South Korean deal was supposed to create 70,000 jobs. Instead, we lost 100,000 jobs and our trade deficit with South Korea has more than doubled. These are the deals we make.
Next, Hillary Clinton wants to approve the Trans-Pacific Partnership. That deal will be a disaster for North Carolina -- for every state. Your state -- your state has lost more than 4-in-10 manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, signed by her husband. Im going to renegotiate this disastrous deal. And if we dont get the deal we want, well walk away and well start all over again.
Our trade deficit with the world is nearly $800 billion a year. Think of that -- $800 billion. You almost say Who is negotiating these deals?" We have a trade deficit world-wide of almost $800 billion. This is
Now, four more years of Obama -- four more years of Clinton -- you cant do it. You cant do it. People arent going to take it. But, were going to turn it all around. My economic agenda can be summed up in three very beautiful words: Jobs, jobs, jobs.
Im going to get rid of massive -- absolutely massive amounts of unnecessary regulations, and your tax cuts are going to be so happy -- youre going to be so happy when you bring all that money home.
Big tax cuts. She will raise taxes; Im lowering taxes. Thats a big difference. Im going to repeal, and Im going to replace Obamacare --
-- which has turned out to be an economic disaster for families. Im going to create American energy independence. Im going to make our government lean, responsible, and efficient. Im going to fix our terrible trade deals and defend the American worker. Im going to rebuild our depleted military and take care of our great veterans.
And Im going to appoint justices to the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution of the United States.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals. American cars will travel the roads; American planes will soar the skies; and American ships will, again, patrol the seas.
And its about time. American steel will send -- look, you know all about skyscrapers, right? Anybody going to be an architect? Anybody going to be a developer -- a developer? Any developers -- any young -- oh, one -- two. Hes already a developer.
American steel will send those new skyscrapers into the clouds. American hands will rebuild this nation and American energy, harvested from American sources, will power our nation. American workers will be hired to do the job.
We will put new American steel into the spine of this country. I will fight for every neglected part of our nation -- every single part of this great nation. And I will fight to bring us together as one American people.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one flag.
Its time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new, inclusive prosperity -- and the American future, because thats what its going to be. New factories are going to come rushing in. They are going to come rushing -- rushing in. You wait until you see what happens.
We will incentivize people to stay, and they will be decentivized  if they leave our country. Theyre not going to just come out, fire all our people, build product outside of the country, and sell it into our country so easily. Its going to be a whole different ballgame. And now theyll say You know what? I think were not leaving." Thats whats going to happen.""e will incentivize people to stay
Once more, we will have a government of, by and for the people.
We will make America wealthy again and save your social security -- which you people are a long ways away.
We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.
God bless you. God bless you and thank you. Thank you.
