Donald Trump|Interview: Anderson Cooper Interviews Donald Trump on CNN|August 25, 2016
I dont even know --
Let me just tell you what my policy is, and Im not going to go into all of it because were doing a speech on immigration which I think will explain it in even greater detail. But were going to build a great wall. The wall will be paid for by Mexico. People are not going to be able to tunnel because were going to have tunnel technology.
Were going to have all sorts of things, theres going to be a real wall. Drugs will stop flowing into our nation and poisoning our youth and everybody else. Were going to have all sorts of E-verify and everything you can think of in terms of immigration. People will not come into our country illegally.
Were going to fix that. We are going to make it like its never been before. I dont know if you know, but the border patrol agent, 16,500 border patrol agents endorsed Donald Trump. Theyve never done that for a president before because theyre great people that want to do their job. They dont want to stand there and watch people pour through our borders.
Let me explain. Were going to build a wall. Were going to build a real wall, a wall that absolutely works and they do absolutely work if its done properly. Right now, its a joke. You have walls that are this high. Thats number one. We are going stop illegal immigration pouring into our country. My first day in office, I am going to notify law enforcement authorities that all of the bad dudes, and we have a lot of them, that are here illegally, that are the heads of gangs and drug cartels and all sorts of people --
Probably millions of them, but certainly hundreds of thousands. Big numbers. Theyre out. Theyre out. Excuse me, the police know who they are. Ive spoken to many police. The police know who they are. They deal with them all of the time. Theyre nothing, but problems.
We are going to end sanctuary cities. We are going to run a country like its supposed to be run. Were going to have borders, very strong borders. And after that, were going to see what happens, but we are going to find people and were getting immediately, and I mean, first hour of my -- the first document I will sign will say get the bad ones out of this country, bring them back where they came --
Well, I dont think its a softening. I think its --
Look, Ive had people say its a hardening, actually.
No. Were then going --
You know its a process. You cant take 11 at one time and just say, boom, youre gone. We have to find where these people are. Most people dont even -- nobody even knows if its 11. It could be 30 or and it could be five. Nobody knows what the number is. Ill tell you what we know, let me explain --
Let me tell you what, we know the bad ones. We know where they are, who they are, we know the drug cartel people. We know the gangs and the heads of the gangs and the gang members. Those people are gone.
No, its not --
I dont know anything about Jeb Bush. He wasnt building a wall. Jeb Bush wasnt building a wall. Jeb Bush wasnt making strong borders, and Im not knocking Jeb Bush, but I was with him for a long time.
First, I want to see whats going to happen. We are going to deport many people, many, many people.
Well, we dont know. Were going to find out who they are. We have crime all over this country.
No. There is no pass -- there is no path to legalization, unless people leave the country --
Well, when they come back in, if they come back in, then they can start paying taxes.
There is no path to legalization, unless they leave the country and come back.
But you dont know -- you keep saying 11 million. You dont know what the number is. You know, millions of people --
-- and using the existing laws of our country, and using the existing laws, millions of people are deported every year.
You know that, right? People dont talk about that. Its Obama. They dont talk about that.
A lot of people being deported. Were going to do that vigorously, were going to go with the laws that are existing, but were going to have a very strong border and were not going to have people pouring back in. And when these people, the drug lords and all of these guys that are thrown out, theyre not coming back into the country.
Were going to see what happens once we strengthen the border. Were going to have a strong border, as strong as any border there is anywhere in the world. Were going to have a real wall and tremendous protection, both technological protection and everything else, and then were going to see what happens.
But there is a very good chance the answer could be yes, well see what happens and before we do anything, I want to get rid of the bad ones, there are a lot of them. I want to get rid of all of the bad ones and that will be the single first order I sign. We are going to stop. Right now, Im in New Hampshire, you saw the crowd, you saw the enthusiasm.
I won the primary in New Hampshire. The people of New Hampshire asked me one favor, "Please, Mr. Trump, stop the drugs from coming across the southern border." You have heroin thats pouring across the southern border and destroying the youth and other people in New Hampshire and every other state. Were going to stop all drug trafficking.
Its not going to happen anymore. Were going to stop it. Were going to have a strong border. Were going to have a tremendous wall. Were going to have a wall that Mexico pays for, which will be very easy because they are making a fortune with us, the wall is peanuts compared to the money that they make.
We are going to have a border again. We are not going to allow drugs to come into this country and poison our youth, and then were going to see what happens. But theres no legalization. Theres no amnesty. And if someone wants to go the legalization route, what theyll do is theyll go leave the country, hopefully come back in, and then we can talk.
And one other thing, there are millions of people right now online trying to come into our country. Its very unfair to them, some of the rules, regulations and policies that Ive seen. These are millions of people that want to come into our country legally and it would be very unfair to them.
Well, she is a bigot, because when you look at whats happening to the inner cities and you look at whats happening to African-Americans and Hispanics in this country where she talks all of the time, she talking look at the vets where she said the vet are being treated essentially just fine and that its over exaggerated whats happening to the vets, not so long ago.
Because shes selling them down the tubes. Because shes not doing anything for those communities. She talks a good game.
Her policies are bigoted because she knows theyre not going to work.
Oh she is, of course, she is. Theyre her policies, shes comes up with the policies and others that believe like she does also, but she came out with policies over the years. This is over the years, a long time. Shes totally bigoted, theres no question about it.
I think she has been extremely, extremely bad for African- Americans, I think shes been extremely bad for Hispanics. You look at what happens to her policies and the policies of President Obama and others. Look at the poverty. Look at the rise in poverty. Look at the rise in violence.
Or maybe shes lazy. I dont know what it is. All I can tell you is Ive been hearing the same stuff from her and others for years and the inner cities today are worse than they ever have been.
Honestly I never thought of it, I never thought. As a business person I never thought of it. I got along with all politicians. But she got a long ...
Anderson as you know, working, but not doing the job, and Im now bringing it out for the first time. She hasnt done the job.
Well, take a look at whats happened over the last two weeks since Ive been talking about the subject. Take a look at whats happened, take a look at your most recent polls. I mean the ones over the last 3 or 4 ...
Oh, I think were going to do well with the African-Americans, because theyre going to give me a chance, because frankly look what shes done, what to give a chance, I mean shes been a disaster. The inner cities are worse than theyve ever been. You have 40 percent rates of poverty. You have black youth that cant get jobs, 58 percent cant get jobs, education is a disaster.
Theyve been talking about this since I was 5 years old and understood what was going on. They have been talking about this for years. Hillary Clinton talks about it all of the time. She has done a horrible job, and then you add all of the scandal and the lies and the deception to the e-mails, she should be in jail.
Hillary Clinton should be in jail. You know it. The FBI director knows it, everybody else knows it, she should be in jail. What she did with erasing 33,000 e-mails, she shouldnt be out even talking about inner cities or running for president.
Absolutely. Thats the way I look at it.
I dont think they are. I think if they actually heard me they wouldnt be insulted at all.
I actually take them ...
Excuse -- well thats the fact. Theyre shot on their streets. Look at Chicago.
40 percent are living in poverty, we just say ...
... thats a pretty big -- well I have 40. I have a different stat than you do.
I have 40 percent, whether its 26 or 40. Look, you can look at it any way and I know you want to protect her as much as you possible can.
But let me just tell you, Anderson. She has done a horrible job, her policies dont work, its a disaster for African-Americans and you see whats happening because many of them who watch my speeches are saying, you know, hes right. Theyve been doing this for 50, 60, 70 years and I say what do you have to lose.
And Ill tell you something, not only what do you have to lose, I will fix it.
Im going to do that very soon. In fact, Im going to Detroit and Ill be going to some other places. Ive been invited to many. Ill be doing that very soon.
Oh Im going to do it, yeah sure, I look forward to. In fact, I think Im doing it over the next two weeks, Im a doing a couple of visits.
I can only tell you, I can only tell you I can fix the inner cities, but she cant ...
... is she isnt -- not only cant she, she doesnt have a chance.
Well, first of all, we are bringing love. You see these rooms. They are packed with people that have been just left behind. I call it the Forgotten Men and Women. They have been left behind Anderson by people like her who are third rate politicians who talk and they dont produce. You look at our inner cities, our inner cities are a disaster and the African-American people are realizing that the Democrats who have run these inner cities for 75 and 100 years, they just left them.
Nobody even knows what it is. And she didnt know what it was. This is a term that was just given that frankly, theres no Alt- Right or Alt-Left. All Im embracing is common sense.
I dont know what Steve said. All I can tell you, I can only speak for myself. You see the crowds we have, you see the enthusiasm, I know these are great people. These are people that have not been heard for many years and now they have been heard. First time in many, many decades. In fact, some people say the first time, period.
And I think we are going to do very well. You see whats going on with the polls over the last three or four days. I think we are going to do very well. But ...
... she is somebody thats all talk, no action. Look at the lies, look at the deception, look at whats happened with her e-mails, look at the erasing of 33,000 e-mails. She should be ashamed of herself. She should get back to work for the people. She doesnt do that.
Well, its an incorrect statement. First of all, we were sued many, many years ago when I was very young by the government, sued many, many companies. You know that. It wasnt me. They sued many companies.
And you know what, they found nothing. They found absolutely nothing.
They bring up the case. I settled, with no awards, no nothing.
I dont even know. Honestly, what a superintendent does in a building, that I cant tell you. But I can just tell you that they settled the case and that was the end of it. It was many years ago. And I guess they found we did nothing wrong because we didnt have to do anything. We didnt have any payments to make, we didnt have to pay $20 million in fines.
We didnt have any ...
