Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Rio Rancho, New Mexico|September 16, 2019
Wow. Thank you. Thank you, New Mexico. Thank you. We love being with you, we love being with credible people, credible people. Thank you very much and Im thrilled to be here in Albuquerque, with thousands of hardworking, freedom-loving American patriots. Incredible. Thank you. Were all united by the same love of our great country, and by the way, our country is doing great.
You see it. The same devotion to family and the same profound faith that America is blessed by the eternal grace of Almighty God.  Goodnight to that person. Tomorrow, theyll say massive protest. Now one person just going home to mommy a little bit sooner. Good night. But were bound by these convictions.
We will campaign for every vote and we will win the great state of New Mexico in 2020. And by the way, you have thousands and thousands of people outside who cant get in. So we love you, we love you, we appreciate it. We try to get the biggest arena we can get and theyre never big enough, frankly, so theres something going on. You know I always say, 2016, I dont know if therell be another 2016, but right now its like a great tree or a great plant.
You plant it and it has to take hold. We have to win 2020, were doing so well, we have to win 2020. And every day, and you know as well as I do, were battling against the corrupt establishment of the past and were achieving historic victories for the American people Were winning again, were winning again, and were winning big, were winning big.
Crucially, for your state, we have ended the last administrations war on American energy,. And since by election, natural gas production, big story today, in New Mexico has increased by 40%, four O. And that means, great wages and it means jobs and thats why youre breaking every single record in your states book.
Crude oil production in New Mexico has more than doubled and going up a lot higher very quickly. On your states energy revenues are up by nearly two thirds, think of that, two thirds and thats in a short period of time, OK. Give me a little bit more time, OK?  The United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world.
This means more jobs, higher wages and American energy independence, which is what we have. You know a few years ago, we had a problem, like you saw two days ago in the Middle East, we would have been in a panic, although not if I were your president, we never panic. We dont want to panic, but a few years ago they would have been in a panic.
Today we had a lot of oil. We got a lot of gas. A lot of oil and gas. We dont have to send too many boats over there. You notice the other day. They were saying, We dont see too many American ships anymore. You know why? Because we dont need were independent as independent as we want, and we are now a net exporter of energy.
Revenues from energy production provide up to 25% of your states budget and going much higher in the very near future and theyve generated nearly a billion-dollar budget surplus in New Mexico. Thank you very much, President Trump. Thank you. Now, under the Green New Deal that all goes away, that all goes away.
It all goes away. You can forget it. No more cowers, no more airplanes, no more trips. A single car, make it electric, single car, youre not allowed to travel more than 162 miles. Theyll call us the hermit nation, well never leave our house. Now its crazy, but thats OK. I dont want to bring it up because I dont want to do it too early, maybe theyll change.
I dont want it to change, but think of it, for you and for Texas and for so many other places, they want to get rid of your energy. I mean explain that one, explain that. Yet every major Democrat running for president, they want to abolish your production of oil and natural gas. In other words, the Democrats want to completely annihilate New Mexicos economy.
The Democrats want us to be subservient to foreign producers. They want us to be at the mercy of rogue regimes. Thats not happening anymore. Its been a long time. Its been a long time. Its not happening anymore, but Democrats will never get the chance, because New Mexico will never give them that chance.
Under this administration, America is working again, America is winning again, and America is respected again, like it hasnt been for a long time. And I can tell you because I meet so many of the leaders and their presidents and their kings and queens, and the prime ministers, and their everything.
Dictators, every once in a while, every once in a while, you get a rogue dictator and Ill tell you they always start off. Today I had the crown prince of Bahrain and they come in and they say, Sir, Id like to congratulate you on what youve done with the economy of the United States. Its a model for the entire world.
They all say it. And earlier today -- Do we have any baseball fans right, right? You know what Im saying, but earlier today in the White House, I had the honor of awarding the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Thats the highest civilian award to someone who truly embodies the American dream. Baseball legend, the greatest by the way, the greatest relief pitcher of all time, you look at those records, Mariano Rivera.
He was something. The Yankees won a lot of World Series because of Mariano, a great guy. We gave him the medal. Done so much for charity. A fantastic man, fantastic family. It was a beautiful day at the White House, so it was good. My administration is fighting to empower all Americans to reach their dreams and achieve their potential.
We have created six million new jobs since Election Day. The fake news would never have allowed us to say that during the campaign, even as a projection. Unemployment recently reached its lowest rate, in over 50 years. More than 7 million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps. Nearly 600,000 Americans came into the labor force last month alone, think of that.
Wages in your state, New Mexico are growing at a rate of much more than 3% a year, which is unheard of 20 years ago, and I used to say during the campaign, you go back its hard to believe, Im here almost three years. Can you believe our time is flying? Can you believe? I dont know about me, but you look so much better than you did three years ago.
Youre wealthier and even with the Me Too movement. We cant say this, but Ill say it anyway, youre better looking, including the men, including the men, now youre, all looking good. Since my election, the number of new business applications for New Mexico has increased by almost 30%, more than any state in the United States.
Think of that. More than any state in the United States. So essentially, that saying youre in a certain category, which is a very important category, youre doing better than any state in the United States. How do I lose New Mexico? Explain that one, right? How do we lose that one? No. And yet, for whatever reason, its been quite a while since the Republican won this state, but were going to win the state.
I think were going to win the state easily. Yet to see the people all the way in from the airport That was a long drive by the way, 35 minutes. That was a long drive, but all the way in we had people and they were waving and I didnt see any negative hand gesture, right. No, I think were going to do great here and were here for a number of reasons, but were here, because we really think were going to turn this state and make it a Republican state.
Yesterday marked the beginning of the Hispanic Heritage Month. Whos Hispanic here? Latinos for Trump, thank you. Incredible people. But we have much to celebrate unbelievable when you think the unemployment for Hispanic Americans is, right now, at the lowest level ever recorded in the history of our country.
Hispanic-American poverty reached a brand new all-time low in history. And after years of stagnation, that you know very well, wages for Hispanic Americans are rising really fast, up nearly 8% since my election. Those are unheard of numbers, believe me. And median income, think of that, median income for Hispanic Americans surpassed $50,000 for the first time ever.
Thats your median, thats not bad. That means youre wealthy and youre getting wealthier fast. I just want to tell you its an honor. But you know, when Im on the debate stage, debating one of these far-left radical Democrats, whoever it may be, and they start telling you what theyre going to do for you and you say, but we have the best numbers every category that weve ever had Hispanic Americans, excuse me, New Mexico as a whole.
We have the best numbers. African-Americans, the best numbers that weve ever had in the history of our country. Asian-Americans, the best numbers that weve ever had in history. Women, the best numbers that weve had in 71 years. were working night and day to deliver a future of limitless Opportunity for our nations Hispanic American citizens, including millions and millions of extraordinary Mexican Americans who enrich our society and strengthen our country, serve in our military and contribute immensely to our shared American family.
And I want to just tell you that Mexico is doing a great job for us on the border and I want to thank the president of Mexico. And thats very interesting, I hear everybody screaming. Well, you know were building the wall and its going up and its going  And if you think thats easy with the Democrats, who control the House, we have to take it back, but if you think its easy -- but were building a lot of wall.
Well have almost 500 miles of wall built by the end of next year and its making a big difference. Five hundred miles. But you know we want a big case two months ago, in the Supreme Court that allowed us to do what were doing. This has been -- Ill tell you what. Ready? Another president would have given up a long time ago.
We dont give up. So were building the wall. The Army Corps of Engineers would do it a beautiful job. Its a great -- its a great structure, great structure. Youre going to have to really want to get over that wall to do it, but you know it was very interesting because not too long ago, I saw where the Hispanic American, the Hispanics were up with me in A poll 17% and everyone said how is that?
How was that 17%? Up by 17? I wont even tell you what the final number was, because they wont believe it, but youre going to see what the final number. But you know why? Because the Hispanic Americans, they understand, they dont want criminals coming across the border, they dont want people taking their jobs, they want to have that security and they want the wall.
They want the wall. And we have a man in the audience. Who is, I think, the best dressed man in this entire place, including me right here. Look at him. Come in. Look at him. Look at this guy and hes been to a couple rallies to havent you, huh? We have some people, a group of people the other day -- You know we had a victory in North Carolina that was unbelievable, two of them.
One of them was going to be very, very close, hes another one of my friends. Thank you. I like that beautiful red tie youre wearing. But we had a victory. Two victories, North Carolina, where one was 17 points down three weeks ago we got involved. We started sending out lots of different social media messages.
We did a couple of little robo calls, but the big thing we did a speech the night before the turnout was beyond belief and instead of being down by 17 points, he easily won the election 4 or 5,000 votes. Dan. Thank you, Dan. Thank you, Dan Bishop. And Greg Murphy was up a couple of points and he ended up winning.
I dont not ask the media, but they wont give me -- How many -- What did he get? You know like 20, 21. He won by a lot. He won by a lot. Id ask that, but were not going to get a straight answer. They were not happy. Ill tell you, Tuesday night, the fake news was not happy. You know they had their studios all built.
CNN had their A-list talent, they dont have A-list talent, but they had the best they could. And they were all set, This was going to be the end of Trump because this man was going to lose, but he turned out to be tough and smart. And in all fairness I helped a lot to and toward the end of the night they started dismantling that studio, probably would have been there for four weeks.
This is the end, but we had two great victories congressional victories on Tuesday night, and it was something that one gentleman won by a number that nobody thought even possible, so much, and the other one a race that he was way, way, way back. In fact, I shouldnt tell you this, but my genius is my people, some of those people standing right there.
Right there. Some of them right there. They said, Sir, dont get involved in that race, sir. You cant come back from 17 points, sir. Its too much, I said, But you know I really like the guy. I think hes great. Lets give it a shot, they say, Sir, if you lose, they will never ever itll be much worse. I said, let me tell you, I know them very well.
Whether I helped him or dont help him its going to be the same. Its going to be a disaster, so lets help them. And we campaigned and we worked hard, right? They said, dont do it, sir. Dont do it, please dont do it, sir itll be very embarrassing. I said, No, I dont mind being embarrassed. I dont mind being embarrassed.
Were also very proud that unemployment among Native Americans has reached the lowest rate in nearly two decades. And were building an amazing future for citizens of every background race, religion, color, and creed. And thats what we have, thats what we have: race, religion, color, and creed. But the radical left Democrats want to demolish everything that weve gained.
They want to raise your taxes, they want to bury you in regulation. They want to take away your health insurance, 180 million Americans. They want to erase American history, crush religious liberty, indoctrinate our students with left-wing ideology, and left-wing Democrats want to confiscate your guns and eliminate your God given right to self-defense.
You know that. As your president, I will never allow them to take away your liberty, your dignity, your Social Security, and I will never ever allow them to take away your sacred right to keep and bear arms. The Left tries to threaten bully, intimidate Americans into submission. They use Democrat prosecutors and phony congressional committees whenever they can theyll do whatever they can to demean you, to libel you.
You they try to blacklist coerce, cancel or destroy anyone who gets in their way. Look at what theyre doing today to Justice Kavanaugh. Look at what theyre doing. Did you see the New York Times? Did you see what theyre doing? Did you see what Democrats -- Theyre calling for his resignation, theyre calling for his impeachment.
And the woman involved said she didnt know anything she does, but they still -- So the New York Times had to put out a major apology and they had to change their story. The woman said, I dont remember that. Can you believe? And they still want him to be impeached. And I just put out a statement, and hes a great man by the way, great talent, a great brilliant man, Brett Kavanaugh.
And I just put out a statement on social media. That said, I dont think theyll do it, but they should for the good of the nation. I call for the resignation of everybody at The New York Times involved in the Cabinet Office  , and while youre at it, the Russian witch hunt hoax, which is just as phony as story.
Theyve taken the old gray lady. You know the New York Times for years, the old gray ladies, so prestigious. Theyve, taken the old great lady and broken her down, destroyed her virtue, and ruined her reputation. She can never recover and will never return to greatness under current management. The Times is dead.
Long live the New York Times, long live the New York Times. And I do want it to live, but they have to be -- they have to change their ways. Think of it, they wrote a story about somebody that said she doesnt remember this. Can you even believe it. And yet all of these radical left crazies are in Judiciary Committee and all of these committees that is set up to hurt the country with all that we have going with Saudi Arabia, with, Iran, with China.
Trade deal with Russia with North Korea, with all that we have gone, and look at the cards that weve been dealt. Lucky, we won the election in 2016. Believe me. With all that we have going, they say, lets impeach Justice Kavanaugh, one of the smartest, most brilliant students, top at Yale, incredible life, incredible family, Lets impeach him, its a made up story.
Lets impeach, President Trump. Think of that. The Muller report came out. Think of this. This crazy Muller report comes out, 18 Trump haters, liberal Democrats, some work for Hillary Clinton. They found nothing. No, think of it. After two years, they found nothing, they spent $40 million, theres not a person in the room that I couldnt find something on with that.
They spent -- think of it. They found nothing, no collusion, no obstruction, no nothing. To stop the far lefts campaign of destruction, you must vote Republican and youre going to get the chance very soon. Were joined tonight by many terrific Republican leaders and somebody thats done an incredible job.
She ran Michigan for me and, as you know, for the presidential races Michigan had been one in decades and she kept saying, Could you come back, sir? I didnt know who she was. I said, Who the heck is the woman in Michigan that keeps asking? She said, Sir, you keep coming back, you got to win Michigan. Has it been one in decades, and I won Michigan.
Remember that great, great  Great, great night. Donald Trump has won the great state of Michigan and they were going crazy on television. They were going. That was not a good night for certain people. Remember the -- the couple of people that were crying? I guess they dont like a strong military, they dont like cutting regulations, they dont like low taxes.
They dont like right to try. You know right to try? All these things weve done. For the vets, we got Choice. We got Choice for the vets. Choice. Everybody said it was impossible. Weve rebuilt, our military. I told this story for the first time today. A general came into my office and my first few weeks you remember it was a little dangerous out there.
President Obama left us with a few beauties, right. And I said to this general, You better be prepared, because this is looking like it could really be conflict and he looked at me and he goes, Sir, we have very little ammunition. I said, Say it again. And I want to tell you the words very little he didnt use because he was less than that.
And I said, I never want to see a president in a position like that, where we may have conflict and a general looks at him and said we have very little, slash, no ammunition. I never want a president of the United States to be in that position and since then, three years, $700 billion weve spent, then $716 billion, and now $738 billion and our military is by far the greatest in the world.
Theres nobody that even comes to it.  So anyway, no president should ever be put in that position. And by the way, no president should ever have to go through what Ive gone through either. That should never happen. What happened is a disgrace to our country. No president should ever have to go through and Ill tell you what, 99% of them would never have been able to take it. They wouldnt have been able to take it, but we won the great state of Michigan and now were doing really well, because weve moved a lot of car companies.
I tell Japan, sorry big deficits with all these countries, were changing it, but you got to get car companies were building car companies now in Michigan theyre not going to be leaving for lots of other countries, including China, including Mexico, theyre, going to stay home and theyre going to pay you a lot of money and everybodys going to be happy, but Michigan is doing great and Ronna McDaniel was the Republican Party Chair of Michigan.
So when we won the election, I said, Lets get the woman from Michigan to run the RNC and she has done an incredible job. Thank you Ronna. A great gentleman who loves the Republican Party co-chairman, Tommy Hicks. Tommy. What a job. New Mexico Republican Party Chairman, Steve Pearce. My friend, and a really talented guy.
He just gets a hell knocked out of him all the time. Brad Parscale, what a job hes doing. Brad. Great job, Brad. Great job. And another great friend of mine, somebody that was on CNN and they didnt like him because he was too positive on Trump. Can you believe it? He happens to be Hispanic, he happens to be Hispanic, but Ive never quite figured it out because he looks more like a wasp than I do. So I havent figured that one out, but Ill tell you what, there is nobody that loves his country more or Hispanic more than Steve Cortez.
Steve. Thank you, Steve. Nobody loves the Hispanics more. Who do you like more the country or the Hispanics? He says the country, I dont know. I -- I may have to go for the Hispanics to be honest with you. We got a lot of Hispanics, we love our Hispanics, get out and vote. You know just before the last election, the Cubans from Miami, where we got a tremendous percentage of the vote close to 90%. They gave me the Bay of Pigs award.
Can you imagine, right? The Bay of Pigs award. And the Venezuelans and the Cubans are all for Trump. I will tell you that. Theyre all for Trump, they like what were doing. With the help of -- and Steve I want to thank you very much, by the way, and you were incredible on CNN and now youll get a real job, OK? Steve, that audience wasnt big enough for you.
Their ratings arent good. With the help of everyone here tonight. Were taking power out of Washington and giving it back to the great people of our country and to the people of New Mexico. Weve got a record number of job-killing regulations, saving the average American household $3,000. We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history, and what that means is a typical family of four in New Mexico, making $75,000 dollars has seen their tax bill reduced by more than $2,000. And its one of the reasons that as the world is not doing great, you look at Europe and you look at Asia and China is not doing too well.
I must be honest with you. Worst year in 57 years Id say, thats not good, but I hope they still like me. And weve taken in tens of billions of dollars worth of tariffs and weve given those tariffs -- and by the way, Chinas eating the tariffs that devalue their currency. The prices are very similar and theyre eating the tariffs.
And out of the tens of billions, we gave our great farmers because they were targeted by China, because China knows, very smart that the farmers love Trump and Trump loves the farmers. I said to our - I said to our secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, I said, Sonny, how much did the farmers get hit by -- by China targeting them and pulling back and doing all sorts of things?
He said, $16 billion. I said, Thats OK, well take $16 billion out of a much, much, much larger number. Were going to give it to the farmers, so that theyre even and I tell you, the farmers do love Trump. They do love Trump. And to keep New Mexicos farms. Ranches and small businesses in the family, we eliminated the unfair estate tax or death tax so that you can now give your farm on your ranch to your children.
If you dont, like your children, dont do it, but when its your time to kick the bucket, you worked hard, you have great kids, you love your kids, theyve taken care of you. You really love them. Its a great thing, if you dont love them, dont even listen to the last line because it wont matter, dont leave it to them.
If theyre not good, leave it to charity, Leave it to something else, dont do it. I know a guy, cant stand his children, theyre horrible, horrible human beings, theyre a little older now, but theyre horrible human beings. He wants to leave his wealth. They said, Why would you leave that, they dont even like you?
But on the assumption that you love your children, youll be able to use small farms and your ranches and things youll be able to leave them to your children. Your children wont have to go out and borrow a fortune to pay tax. They wont be losing it to the banks. Five years later, we got rid of it. Thats a big deal.
Thank you. Thank you. Our shared Republican agenda is pro worker, pro jobs, pro family, pro growth, and 100% pro-American. For many decades our leaders put global interests and special interests ahead of your interests. You know that. In New Mexico, you know exactly what Im talking about. People came in, they took your jobs, they had no border, they had no border control.
Look -- look at whats going on now. How were doing, I mean, honestly, I mentioned the president of Mexico. We have today 27,000 Mexican soldiers on the border, protecting our country and Ill take it. Because our laws are so bad, theyre so pathetic, and the Democrats could change these laws. They could change him so quickly.
We could change them all in less than an hour. We could do -- whether its asylum, whether its -- any of the laws. We have so many of them that are so bad -- how they got that it took years and years to end up, but we have the Mexican soldiers out there. You see him and theyre stopping people. Theyre numbers are plummeting down, so I just want to thank all of the representatives of Mexico.
Amazing. But weve got to get rid of the loopholes. You know, the word is loopholes and the Democrats could do it fast, but in the meantime, were doing really well. And as the wall goes up, it becomes less and less of a problem because as the wall gets up, people arent getting through. I mean, you got to be a a world-class pole vaulter or a world-class Mt. Everest type climber, theres one not too many around like that.
Its really doing the trick. The failed liberal establishment in Washington squandered your tax dollars, shipped away your jobs, sacrifice your sovereignty, and bogged us down in one foreign war debacle, call it whatever you want, after another and thats changing also, you see whats happening. And when these rich countries think were going to pay for their military every year, billions and billions and billions and theyre rich, and they take our business and were supposed to on top of everything else, I could tell you stories, but Im going to save them for the campaign, you know, because to be honest, this is a little earlier than the campaign.
Later this campaign starts. You know, like, I was telling Brad and I was telling a few of the folks, One thing I dont want to do -- Michael back there. Michael, hello, my, what a job hes done. But Im telling them. I dont want to do this too early. I dont want to do it. You know the Pocahontas thing, I did that, it was before his time.
Right? It was before his time. Too early. One thousand twenty four. That means, I have more Indian blood than she does and I have none. Unfortunately, Id like to say I have a lot. Either get me another 4%, maybe another 10%, but I was early with her and frankly, oh, its coming back, dont worry about it. But those days are over under this administration.
We are finally putting America first. Putting it first.  Were reversing decades of calamitous trade policies that ravished our industries and devastated communities all across our land. You see the factories, empty buildings, empty hulks, some have been demolished, some have been reek, inverted into senior citizen housing and housing, but all those jobs are gone and were bringing them back.
Theyre coming back like almost never before, probably, I can say theyre coming back, like never before. People are coming back now because they want to be where the action is, and this is the country where they have the security and where they do have the action. In my first week in office, I proudly withdrew.
From the last administrations job destroying cap -- and this was a catastrophe. You know the Trans-Pacific Partnership? TPP. This would have destroyed the automobile business in our country. Now, New Mexico, you know that you were totally devastated by another disaster, known as NAFTA. Your state lost 33% of its manufacturing jobs after NAFTA was signed.
This was one of the great catastrophes and now were replacing NAFTA with the brand new U.S-Mexico-Canada Agreement, USMCA, Think of the song YMCA, YMCA, think of the song, USMCA. Thats U.S-Mexico-Canada Agreement and its drawing strong bipartisan support from all across your State and all across the country, its amazing.
I want to just -- yeah. The DoÒa Ana county Board of Commissioners all Democrats, just unanimously endorsed the USMCA and urged Congress to pass it immediately. Thank you very much, commissioners. All Democrats. Hopefully, theyll put it up for a vote. Nancy Pelosi, they put it up for a vote. Its going to be very popular, but Republicans love it and the Democrats love it. And frankly, Labor loves, it. Unions, love it. Farmers, love, love, love it and everybody wants it, your farmers, your ranchers, everybody wants it. Its an incredible agreement and Mexicos already passed it and Canada is ready to pass it soon as we do. See, they dont, maybe, trust us, thats why.
As I warn you passing it now, they say, oh well pass it, theyre going to pass it as soon as we do. Past leaders invited China to freely loot and pillage the United States economy. China has been taking out, from 300 billion to $500 billion a year, billion, not million, billion. Think of what $500 billion is. Weve rebuilt China, but now its a different ballgame somebody had to do something with China.
President Obama should have done it. Presidents Bush should have done it. President Clinton should have done it. They all should have done it. Frankly, they all should have done a lot of things that were doing right now. So if you look at it, nobody did it. So Im doing it and thats whats going to happen, were doing well.
So now were taking in billions and billions of dollars from China, when in the past we never got 10 cents, we never got money, we never got anything. You know we got unemployment and losses and some G pencils more than we needed. You could do with one less pencil. Following decades of outsourcing and offshoring.
Our jobs and factories and coming back home where they belong. If foreign companies do not want to pay our tariffs, there is one very simple solution come and make your product in America come and make your product in New Mexico. And by the way, Im just seeing this great group of people. The spirit -- Is there any place in the world thats more fun or more exciting than a Trump rally?
Really. When you think about it, its not about fun. Its about achievement, because what weve achieved in the last almost three years is unparalleled. Theres never been an administration that in the first two-and-a-half years has done what weve been able to do or achieve. In a few short weeks, well be up to 180, sounds impossible.
Federal judges, including court of appeals, judges, because President Obama did us a great favor when I came in, I said, I assume I have no judges to appoint. No sir, you have 138 judges. 138, didnt put them up, couldnt get them approved. I dont know what happened, but we started off with 138. Now were up to 180. I just signed my 150th federal judge and court of appeals judge, and we already have two great Supreme Court justices, lawsuits and cabinet.
Great, great men. So think of that. You know you come in, and Ive always heard the most important thing. A president does. I disagree with this by the way, but thats OK. I disagree with a lot of things because I think the most important thing is our military and protecting our country, right? But if you listen to the so-called Washington elite -- Now why are they elite?
We do better than they do were smarter than them. We make more money, we have better houses, we have better everything and then they say the elite. That means youre the super elite. I have always taken offense when somebody said, President Trump is tired of listening to the elite. I said no, no, Im more elite than them.
I mean, If we go by the old standards, our better houses, better schools, made much more money, lived better, had everything going and then I decide to run for president and Ill be -- Ill be honest. Well, we have to put up with these people, and others are -- thats incredible, but its the greatest, single decision Ive ever made because our country is turning around so rapidly.
I could not be happier despite what they put us all through. After years of building up other countries were finally building up our country. Isnt that nice? Its time to finally take care of our own and were also aggressively combating the opioid epidemic, which is horrible and as a result of our nonstop efforts and billions and billions of dollars invested, last year we saw the first nationwide decline in drug overdose deaths and it was a very big decline in nearly three decades, 30 years.
And at the center of Americas drug crisis, this is where the Hispanics know it better than anybody. People said, Oh, the Hispanics wont like a world. I said, I think theyre going to love it. They wont like border security. I think theyre going to love it. You know why, because you understand it better than other people, but at the whole center of this crisis is the drugs that are pouring in, and you understand that when other people dont understand it. The border crisis, every day dangerous criminal cartels smuggle vast quantities of lethal Narcotics across your southern border, including heroin, meth, cocaine, and fentanyl, and were stopping them now.
You see the kind of numbers were getting, millions and millions and millions of dollars worth weve had some shipments that could kill half of the country. Some of the fentanyl and some of the bad, really bad stuff if it were distributed could actually has the power to kill half of the country. This is like a war-like situation.
Thats why youre liking Trump, because youre not going to let that happen. If you want to stop the drug smugglers and the human traffickers, how about the human traffic? And they traffic really for the most part in women, thats what they traffic in, its women. Theyre not trafficking in men, they capture women and they bring them across the open borders and they dont go through ports of entry where you have guards standing there with guns and rifles and everything else.
They go out into the desert areas and they hang a left or they hang a right and they come in. But now when you have a wall, they cant do that right? Cant do that. And so many of these Democrats that are against whats common sense. Look. You know what I saw the other day? Where the Democrats are having their convention, their national convention.
They just gave out a tremendous contract. You know what its for? Theyre building a big wall around the building, theyre building a big wall, a massive wall. We should tell them open borders, let everybody come in. And a few years ago, almost every one of these theyre on tape. Thats the problem with politics.
Three years, they could say, Look. I saw Senator Schumer, I saw Nancy Pelosi, I saw all of them, they said, No, we need a wall, we must have a wall, we must have President Obama, we must have a wall, we must stop people from coming into our country illegally, we have to stop it. We need a wall now, a few leaders later they dont want a wall.
You know why? because anything I want, they want to do the opposite and thats OK, thats the only reason. But if you want to stop the drug smugglers, human traffickers and vicious MS-3 gang members, which were taking out every year by the thousands and getting them The hell out of our country, because of ICE.
and if you want to stop all these people from threatening our communities and poisoning our youth, you know its poisoning. Are you thats what it is? Its nothing other than that. Its very simple, theyre poisoning our youth. You have only one choice, you must elect Republicans. And to be honest with you, youve got to elect President Trump.
We need four more years. President Trump.  How about these phony Democrats? They started with Russia, Russia, Russia, that turned out to be a fraud, that turned out to be a fraud. Then they went to race. They believe that one race, some of the least racist person in this room.
Then they went to recession, theres going to be a recession. Oh, please let there be a recession, please, because we have a better chance of defeating him if theres a recession. And unfortunately, the stock markets only a few points from its all-time high, which weve broken on, I think its, well over a hundred times, we broke the all-time record.
And now they have a new one that Im enriching my sublimity. By doing this, and taking this particular job, which I love, it will cost me billions and billions of dollars. But if somebody from the Middle East that I never saw before comes in and stays in one of my hotels for an evening and pays $439. Emoluments, nobody ever heard the word emolument before.
Emolument. Nobody ever heard that word, emoluments. Hes enriching himself. If somebody buys a tank of gas in Scotland from an airport that I dont know, and they happen to go to a hotel, hes enriching himself like 20 people. And they lose billions of dollars and thats OK. I expected to do that when I did it, I didnt know what would happen if I lost.
Can you imagine? Supposing I lost and we would have had the same basic rhetoric. I mean, winning was great. Supposing, you know, Im doing all the things Im telling you all the same sort of thing, supposing I didnt make it. Id have to go around, I would have lost and lost billions. Then I would have been really unhappy, but Ill tell you what, I expected that when I did this in terms of opportunity, in terms of certain places, they can never do as well when you have this kind of rhetoric, they can never do. So Ill lose billions of dollars always expected.
They say I enrich myself because somebody is going to stay at my hotel. It doesnt work that way, folks, and these are very, very dishonest people and they know it. So theyve, given up what every other you know it too, you,get it. The Democrat agenda of open borders, places vast burdens on your communities and your schools and your hospitals and public safety.
All at the expense of hardworking New Mexico families and throughout our country, sheriffs and commissioners from nine Mexico counties recently sent a letter to your states congressional delegation, begging them to vote for strong border security. They want in New Mexico. They dont want open borders, they dont want criminals pouring into your communities and doing what they do and we wont even talk about that.
They want strong -- These are people that are with you. In many cases, Democrats, they write letters. We need strong border security. You know in San Diego, California is very difficult, always complaining, not doing great, but they wanted a wall in San Diego, good mayor in San Diego, by the way. They wanted a wall, and I said, You know what, lets build it someplace else, because California, you know, once we build it, theyll complain.
But then I said you know the people are pouring in. They needed it. Theyre pouring into San Diego, like going all over the place and people that had houses, they didnt like people running over their gardens all day long coming in from the other side. So we put up a wall and I thought everybody would be happy.
As soon as it was finished, the day it was finished, I was notified, we didnt want the wall, Why did you do the wall? And I will tell you, in other words, its all a game. Id love to take the sucker down and move it right down to New Mexico And if I did that theyd go crazy and theyd say, Please, sir, dont do that.
Please, please. The same people that are saying we dont want a wall. Why did you put up a wall? And I knew that was going to happen. I told my people that was going to happen, but theyre very happy with their wall. Most of them wont say it, they love it, it stopped, it only stopped 99.9% of the people coming in. And the only reason Im not moving into New Mexico is that it would cost more money to move it than to build you a brand new beautiful wall.
So Ill give you a break if true. Its true. I actually priced it out. Its true. This contract is all my life. Ive been there. They can find a way to make money. Sir, itll cost more money to move the wall than to build a new one. They have -- They have it. But the commission -- your commissioners, wrote, I quote, Our communities do not have the resources nor the budgets to handle the massive influx of immigrants we are experiencing.
This is your commissioners writing to us in Washington. Our scarce resources are in danger of being rapidly depleted to the point that we will be unable to effectively care for our own citizens, you, and our existing homeless populations, many of whom are American veterans, right? So Democrats put illegal aliens before American citizens.
Republicans believe that we must take care of our own citizens first, Im sorry. That includes millions of hardworking, lawful immigrants who waited in line, follow the rules and came into our country legally. And among those hardest hit by illegal immigration are Hispanic-Americans who obey our laws, pay their taxes contribute to our communities and play by the rules and theyre the ones that want to see something done, and we are doing it at a level that nobody else would be capable of doing.
Whether youre a first generation or a tenth generation, every American citizen deserves a government that defends your jobs, your safety, your family, and is always loyal to you. Your politicians have not been loyal to you. Theyve been loyal to themselves. The Democrats are also trying to turn every city in America into a sanctuary for criminal alien and thats one of the very good reasons we won on Tuesday night, North Carolina, because they let people out of their sanctuary city and what those people did, I will not tell you tonight, but it wasnt good its one of the reasons we had big victories, two of them in North Carolina, sanctuary cities and plenty of people, even in California, where they have sanctuary cities.
They dont want sanctuary cities, the politicians do, but they dont want them. Right here in New Mexico, democrats are trying to turn you into a total sanctuary state, creating a safe harbor for dangerous criminal aliens and gang members that sanctuary policies released from jail. Now think of it, they want to make your whole state a sanctuary state.
So when MS-13 comes in -- and I told you before -- we take them out by the thousands and theyre tough, theyre tough, but our ICE folks are even tougher. Theres nobody to but youre, I would say naive, but maybe its much worse than -- theyre naive, these politicians, theyre naive politicians. They dont want ice to come in. They dont want to take these criminals out and if you dont take them out and theyre in New Mexico, I got to tell you something, folks, You got problems.
Youve got problems. Youve got big problems. Republicans believe our cities should be sanctuaries for law-abiding Americans not for criminal aliens. And Republicans will always support the heroes of ICE Border Patrol and our great law enforcement. The Democrat Party -- Do you notice I always say the Democrat Party?
You know, before I came they were all going democratic because it sounds better, right? It does. its much nicer. The Democratic Party is much nicer than the Democrat Party, but their name is the Democrat Party and Im not looking for them to sound nice. I want to give their name so I always say the Democrat Party, but thats their name, the Democrat Party.
Frankly, they should probably change it because it does -- and then I call the Democratic Party, but the Democrat Party has never been farther outside the mainstream. Every major -- its a nasty fly. I dont like those suckers, I dont know about you in New Mexico, but Im not into flies or mosquitoes. I dont like snakes too much.
We have plenty of them in New York and Washington a different variety. I dont like snakes either. Weve got a lot of snakes in Washington. D.C. Weve got a lot of steaks in New York. I dont like either kind of snake. I think I like the kind on the ground better than the ones we have in  . Every major Democrat running for president supports a massive government takeover of health care that would destroy Medicare as we know it today.
My administration will protect Medicare and defend your right to choose the plan and the doctor that is best for you. And we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. The Republicans will always do that. Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 50 years.
You dont hear this because the fake news doesnt want to read about it. You know, sometimes I have a news conference about something good, so good and Ill say you know, I call my wife first lady. First lady. People love our First Lady. Ill say, When you see television tonight and we did something that was so great whatever it may be, we did a lot of things.
We did something so great and it wont be on. But if theres something thats just slightly negative or even if its good that they could turn negative, thats what they like best. Take something good and turn it negative. Its breaking. We have breaking news, we have breaking news, these are phony people, but thats OK. You know when you think of it, Im president and theyre not.
Crazy. Its crazy. You know sometimes Ill be in the Oval Office and Ill be with my people. We have great people, and I say, You know -- And its great calm in the Oval Office. You dont like to hear about it because you dont hear about it too much, thats not worth it, but we have great calm, considering its pretty wild stuff going on in the world, right?
But Ill be saying you know they dont treat us right. They dont treat us right, its not fair, its not this and then Ill just sit back and say, Look, were in the Oval Office and theyre not. Its pretty amazing, its pretty amazing. And when you have the Democrat Party and the press, the media, the lame stream media, the fake News and their partners, they are partners, OK? Remember the word manufactured?
They used the word manufacturer or something never been used for that thing, and every news gets. The manufactured crisis started the next one. This crisis was manufactured every one of them use the word manufacture. They know what Im talking about. Now thats called collusion, folks. Thats real collusion.
You know, you have that, and so you have the Democrats, you have the media, theyre partners. Then you have the deep state were getting rid of a lot of them. Ill tell you, were fighting them left and right. Boom. Well, you take a look at Ill. Tell you what, Ill tell you what, You take a look at what were doing with all of the things.
Im not going to get into detail. But you know what Im talking about, clean the swamp, thats the ultimate cleaning of the swamp. And then I hate to say this. But we have some Republicans theyre, not good. You call them a rhino, theyre rhinos, the rhinos are worse and some of them are worse than the Obama people, right?
The worst of the Obama people theyre worse than the Clinton people, but there arent too many of them left theyre pretty much on respirators, theyre gasping, theyre gasping for air, but we do have some bad people that you wouldnt believe. I didnt hear you. Why did you say? What? I didnt hear that.
Virtually every top Democrat also now supports late-term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mothers womb, right up until the moment of birth, and thats why Ive asked Congress to prohibit extreme late-term abortion, because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. Right? I see it, just like Mom, I see it. Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, and socialism.
The Republican Party is the party of the American worker, the American family, and it is the party of the American dream. Weve achieved record funding for the US military. All of that money, trillions and trillions of dollars spent all produced right here in the good old USA,  and I have to tell you, New Mexico, I know youre going to like this, a lot of those trillions because you know when you do the 7 16 and the 7 30 and the 700 billion all of a sudden youre in trillions, and I can save a lot of lines when I just say trillions.
A lot of that money is going to be spent in the state of the art military equipment, thats being used at Holloman Air Force Base, White Sands Missile Range, Kirtland Air Force Base and many other vital New Mexico military installations that are going up as we speak. Thats also jobs, but more importantly, that even jobs -- Incredible what youve done for the military in New Mexico is incredible and weve remembered, but were pouring a lot of money into New Mexico.
And that means a lot of good thing. And were investing in our nations nuclear security, including right here in New Mexico and Sandia National Laboratories and Los Alamos National Laboratory To protect Americas security, I withdrew the United States from the horrible one-sided iran nuclear deal. It was no good and we imposed the toughest ever sanctions on the Iranian regime.
Watch how that works out, folks. Its going to be very good. I recognized Israels true capital and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. And dont forget what I did for Israel with respect to Golan Heights. Dont forget. Right? For years, you watched as your politicians apologize for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for America and we are standing up for New Mexico.
And you must never forget, get out there and vote and get ready and get everybody. We need it because were fighting a lot of forces, including Facebook, I saw, and Google I saw. Did you see Google? He said I may have lost 2 million to 10 million votes according to this character that worked at Google, right?
And we still won. How the hell did we win? Everybody was against us. How did we win? How did we win? This is a Google executive. From two million to 10.5 million votes and we won. I dont know we must be doing -- I will say this, that happened and people came from the valleys. They came from everywhere. They came from places that nobodys ever talked about before, and it was the forgotten men and women, but the truth is, I know these men and women and theyre the most incredible men and women in this country.
They really are. They just never had anybody, they really wanted to vote for, or at least for a long time they didnt want to get out there. They said, Boy, oh boy, is this the best they can do? I mean in all fairness. I dont want to go too early here. Look at the field. Did you watch the debate the other day?
Weve got almost $350 million people. Ill take it. Thats the best they can do. Well see, well see you never want to get too cocky. Somebody said, In the great state of Texas, Donald Trump is down two points to Buttigieg, Buttigieg, Buttigieg. Theyre phony polls. You know they have phony polls. I told the story the other night.
For six months. I was hearing that Im going to lose the state of Texas and friends of mine from Texas that look just like these guys. See these two guys with a hat? They might even be better looking. If they look just like -- and theyre own just say, I dont know about you, but I know a lot about Texas and Donald Trump, hes not going to be losing the state of Texas.
Remember that? See, they dont say its in play, theyre too smart. They say Texas is in play and Utah they said was in play. All these are in play. In play means we could lose them, right? Its a better term, though, because this way they cant get skunked, but they can get skunked with me. So what happens is on that?
Beautiful election, that was not one of the greatest coolest nights ever. Well, you know they can never call a victory unless you absolutely have it and unless youre winning by a lot. This is six months, Texas is in play, you know he could lose Texas. I keep saying I go to a stadium. We sell out thousands of people lines that are miles long.
I mean, and every friend of mine, says youre going to win by a lot, so they announce eight oclock, whatever time, the polls in Texas are closed. Donald Trump, has won the state of Texas. The polls in Utah are closed. Donald Trump has won the state of Utah. They dont even take a breath. Now, if its close, like its in play, you know you wait two three four or five hours to see what it is, but they dont even take a breath because theyre called suppression polls and theyre no different than all of the dishonest reporting that you people say.
Theyre no different. Theyre suppression polls. And Ill tell you what, were going to win the state of New Mexico and Ill be so surprised if we didnt. You know were going to win New Mexico. You know when I came here during the last election, came here a little because I was told very hard to win and I came here a little bit and I saw great spirit, but I didnt really have a track record because you know I never did this stuff before so I said I was going to cut your taxes.
I did. I said I was going to cut you regulations. I did more than any president in history and theyve been there for many years. Ive been there for two and a half. And I think the regulation cutting, like the waters of the U.S. That was another beauty where you couldnt build a house. You couldnt farm your land.
Now what weve done on regulations is incredible. Ive done. Ive rebuilt our military. Ive taken care of our vets. Look how happy our vets are with choice. Instead of waiting for two months to see a doctor or two weeks or three days, they now go out. If theres a wait, they go out, they get a private doctor, they get taken care of, we pay the bill and for the first time theyve tried to get that for 45 years they havent been able to get it, but Im good at getting things.
You must never forget the 2020 election is about one thing, whats it about its about you, it is its about you, its about you. You know Im doing a good job as your messenger, but basically Im a messenger. I know what you want. I understand that its about your family, its about your future and its about the fate of your country, for your children, for everybody, its about the fate of your country, its about the future of our great country, no matter what label they use, a vote for any Democrat in 2020 is a vote for the rise of radical socialism and the destruction of the American dream.
Thats what its about. Look at Venezuela, Venezuela, 15 years ago, was one of the wealthiest countries in the world and today very sad, no food, no water, no, nothing. Socialism. We begin this campaign with the best record, the best results, the best agenda and the only positive vision for America, and its not just a little bit positive.
Our country is going to be greater than it ever was. Thats where were headed. Together, we will help millions more citizens, know the dignity of work, the pride of a paycheck and the satisfaction of a job really well done. With your help, we will elect a Republican Congress to create a safe, modern, fair and very lawful system of immigration.
And were going to have a lot done anyway. We already do have a lot. Then you saw the figures last week, but were doing it the hard way would be so much easier. With a little stroke of the pen, we will enact trade deals that ensure more products are proudly stamped with those beautiful, beautiful words that incredible phrase: Made in the USA.
We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and medicine, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America within ten years that weve already started that program. It will happen. We have the medicine. Nobody even knew that. The AIDS epidemic in this country will be gone within ten years.
Weve already started the process. Its been funded, its been funded. Who would have thought that. Honestly, when I ran, I didnt know that we have now the technology and what theyve done with respect to AIDS is incredible. What a terrible, terrible period of time the world went through, but we will have it ended within 10 years.
We will defeat the effort to drive up the cost of houses, cars, healthcare, light bulbs, right? They took away our light bulb. I want an incandescent light. I want to look better. Ok, I want to pay less money to look better. Does that make sense? You pay much less money and you look much better and on top of that, with the new bulbs, if they break its considered a hazardous waste site, its all gases inside and youre supposed to bring it back to where you bought it in a sealed container, give me a break.
I ask the people, the professionals. Well, what do people do when it breaks because they break all the time? What do they do? Nothing they throw it away. So I owe a lot of people didnt know. They didnt understand. Youre a much better light at a much reduced cost and its much safer because when those other bulbs break they really are dangerous.
The gases come out theyre dangerous. These are little things that I have to explain, otherwise, people would say What the hell are you doing with light bulbs and were trying to do the same thing with cars. Cars have so much junk on them now to save a tiny little fraction of gasoline, they have so much junk that theyre less safe.
So what I want to do is the following: Under our rules and regulations that cars are environmentally terrific, but theyre, safer and theyre $3,500 less to buy. Right? and the reason theyre safer is because they can be a little bit heavier makes sense, right. They could be a little bit heavier, I mean they make them now, like papier m‚chÈ. Somebody touches them in the entire car collapses.
When somebody hits me, I want to be in as close to an army tank as possible. Now theyre made out of paper m‚chÈ. They weigh about three pounds and if you get hit by a bus, its over. They say what happened to that car. No, I think of it. Its safer, its less expensive by $3,500 on average. And California wants you to do the other cars and we dont were going to end up in a big litigation and Im fighting for you.
Look. Look. Its -- its not the kind of thing most presidents would be fighting for because they say I pay more, let it be unsafe, listen to the environmentalists and Im an environmentalist, I believe in the environment. I want the cleanest water on the planet. I want the cleanest air. I want a lot of things.
You know right now we have the cleanest air that weve ever had in this country. But what are they going to do about China, and India, and Russia and other countries that are spewing stuff? What do we do about them? Were going to keep our nation clean, but you know the universe is so big that when you talk about China, the USA, India, you talk about these different places where a lot of bad stuff comes out, right?
Its so big that its right next to each other. Its right next to each other. Does that make sense, right? Its right next to each other. So what are they going to do? We want to have the cleanest water and the cleanest air. We will defend privacy, we will defend free speech, free assembly, religious liberty, and we will always proudly defend your Second Amendment, and were doing it now.
And above all, we will never stop fighting for the values that bind us together as one American. We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with our incredible heroes of law enforcement, we believe in the dignity of work and in the sanctity of life. We believe that mothers and fathers, not Washington bureaucrats, know best how to raise their strong, beautiful families in their loving and wonderful communities.
We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history and always respect our great American flag. And we will always live by the words of our national motto, nobody will ever take it down. Nobody will ever take it down. We will never allow them to take it down, In God We Trust.
we stand on the shoulders of American patriots who built this country into the greatest nation ever to exist on the face of the earth, and we are going to be better than ever before, and it wont even be close and were right there. Our ancestors crossed the oceans, settled the continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered sciences, won two World Wars, defeated fascism, and communism, put a man on the moon and build the most exceptional country in the history of the world.
And every day of my presidency we will never forget that we are Americans and the future belongs to us. The future belongs to each and every one of you. Right. With your help, your devotion, and your drive --  Hey. Thats too bad. He did it right in the crescendo. How do you top that?
Im just ready? The big beautiful crescendo in his character is going back home. All right. Its two people tonight remember when they say massive protests at the Trump rally, two people.  With your help, your devotion, and you drive, we are going to keep on working. We are going to keep on fighting and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning, a win like never before.
We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before, and ladies and gentlemen of the great State of New Mexico, we love you. The best is yet to come. Best is yet to come. Thank you, New Mexico. And together we will make America wealthy again, very, very wealthy.
