Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Holds a Bilateral Meeting with Andrzej Duda of Poland|September 23, 2019
Well, thank you very much. Its a great honor to be with President Duda of Poland. And weve become friends over the last fairly short period of time. But its been -- it was quite a day in Poland, when we made the speech. You said some nice remarks, I said some nice remarks, and a lot of people remembered what we said. And that was a big -- that was a big afternoon, a big weekend, and its something we -- that I will never forget, frankly.
And I know the United States was very well received. The people of Poland loved the United States. We love the people of Poland. We love Polish people. I think its -- you can tell me: How many Polish people -- ancestry -- do we have in the United States right now? What is it approximately?
Yes.
Its a tremendously large number.
Yeah. Its one of the largest. Theyre great people. Theyre fantastic people. So, thank you. Were going to be discussing trade --
Thats right. Thats right. I know exactly what youre saying. Well be discussing trade and many other things. We have some long meetings set up over the next two weeks. But Poland has been a very, very great country, as far as the United States is concerned. We do a lot of business with Poland.
And they also make product and they sell a lot of us product -- a lot of us really very good product. You have great craftsmen. And thats what we like, is great craftsmen. But so do we. So, weve had a great trading relationship. The visa waivers are in store; its already approved. And were doing it mechanically now so that we get them done as soon as we can, so its much easier to get to Poland and to the United States for the people that want to get there.
Its something thats very important. It was very important, I think, for the President to get that done. And he was able to do it. Through a lot of hard work, he was able to do it. So I congratulate you, and thats something thats going to be great for a lot of -- as you say, for the 10 million people living in the United States that want to travel easily to Poland.
Its our honor.
Thats true. Thats true. Thatll work both ways. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you. Okay, thank you.
Were going to be cooperating in so many different ways, and militarily, primarily. Well be moving soldiers there. Poland has borne the expense. Theyre going to be building us facilities that Im sure will be very beautiful. Theyre -- its being worked out right now. But Poland came to us; they asked us if we would put some troops there.
And they will bear the entire expense, and we appreciate that. And we worked out a deal. Perhaps, Mike, youd want to say something about that?
And well most likely be moving troops from other places in Europe, as opposed to new troops going over there.
Well, well talk to the President and the others about that. Yeah.
No, I think what happens, if you look at Ukraine -- and very important to me -- why isnt Europe -- in fact, I was speaking about this to the President -- to President Duda. Why isnt Europe spending more money? Why is it always the United States spending money? Ive been complaining about this to my people for a long time.
We spend so much money not only to Ukraine, but to other places. And why isnt Germany spending more money? Why isnt France? Why arent other countries in Europe helping Ukraine more? Why is it always the United States? And Ive been saying that from the beginning. And I dont like it that its only us. Despite that, weve given far more than the Obama administration.
He used to send sheets and pillows, and we sent anti-tank guns and weapons. But we really do. And when I spoke with -- I had a great conversation with the new President of Ukraine. And during that conversation, we discussed it. Perhaps youll see it, perhaps you wont see that. It depends on what we want to do. But we had a great conversation.
A very, very -- a very nice conversation, too. But one of the things we discussed is why isnt Europe helping Ukraine more? Why is it always the United States? Thats bothered me from day one. Its not fair to the United States.
Say it?
Ill be there fairly soon. Weve had a very open standing invitation, and Ill be there very soon. That was something -- I really love doing that. We made a speech. Even the fake news gave me great reviews on that speech.  So I was very happy. So in that case, it wasnt fake. It was real. That was real news.
No, I dont think so at all. I think its just because we have a President of Poland who I like, who I respect. And he asked whether or not wed be willing to do that. And I said, "Well, you know, therell have to be installations built." And they said theyre willing to do that. And we worked out a deal, and its my honor.
Again, we have 10 million Polish -- in terms of heritage -- Polish people in the United States. Certainly special parts of the United States. And theyre great people. Its a great country. Theyve done very well, and their economics are very good. Theyve had an economy thats been very strong -- stronger than most.
So we worked out a deal. And I think its great for Poland and its very good for us.
Very soon. Yeah. We have to work out structurally. In other words, from the -- we have to get it done. But they qualify. We worked together very hard on that. But now they qualify, Georgette, and were going to be able to work that out very quickly. I think over the next couple of months we could have it done.
And I know Poland has been looking for that. How many years have you been looking for that -- the waivers? How many years have you? How many?
Thirty?  Thirty is a long time. I didnt know it was that long. But we got it done. Trump gets it done. Other people dont get it done. We get it done. And that was a good one. Thats good for everybody.
No, I didnt. No, I didnt. I didnt do it at all.
But Joe Biden said it about his son. Joe Biden was very dishonest, what he did. What he did is he said if they dont do this or that and get rid of a certain prosecutor -- Joe Biden said it. But because youre a faker -- you in particular; youre a fake-news group of people -- you dont want to report that.
I didnt do it. And you can -- and I hope youre going to be able to see a call, because I didnt do it. You know everybody is looking for that call. And keep going the way youre doing because when you see the call, youre going to be very surprised. No, but Joe Biden --
Let me just -- let me just -- be quiet. Joe Biden is the one that did a very, very bad thing when he said that. And I think it was $1.2 billion he wasnt going to give unless they got rid of the prosecutor who was investigating his son and the company that his son works for. Then you also say: How much did his son make from the Ukraine?
And then ask another question: How much money did his son make from China, based on energy? He knows nothing about energy, so why did he leave China? Why did he leave the Ukraine with all of this money? So, Joe Biden was very dishonest. Now, when you see the call -- if you see it; I hope you see it, frankly -- you will find out that I did not do that at all.
And youll be very disappointed when you see it. Its really a disgrace. It really is a situation where -- it just shows, the press, youve had such a bad week between Justice Kavanaugh and this and other things. Its showing how dishonest so many members of the press are. Not all of you, but so many members of the press are so totally dishonest.
But this is a case -- I hope you get to see the call because your question, you will see, I did not ask for -- I did not make a statement that "you have do this or Im not going to give you aid." I wouldnt do that. I wouldnt do that. With that being said, what I want is I want -- you know, were giving a lot of money away to Ukraine and other places.
You want to see a country thats going to be not corrupt. The President is a good man. He got elected on the fact that he was going to get rid of corruption in Ukraine. Thats, I think, the primary reason he got elected. So he gets elected on the basis of ending corruption in Ukraine. Well, I think thats good, and thats what I want to see.
But when Biden does a thing like that, then theres still corruption, and thats not good.
I can do it very easily. But Id rather not do it from the standpoint of all of the other conversations I have. I may do it because it was a very innocent call on both his part and mine. We had a very nice call. It was really a congratulatory call because he had just won. It was just confirmed. And hes the new President.
And I think hes going to do an excellent job. But remember, he got elected on the basis of -- the biggest part was corruption, in his campaign. And so he wants the same thing, and hes looking for the same thing as I am. He did a very good job. It was a very nice call. I hope you get to see it. And I hope you get to see it soon.
What?
Boris Johnson. You were going to say Boris Johnson?
No, you mentioned Boris Johnson at the beginning of the --
Because he wants a new deal with Iran.
Right?
Say it again.
Talk up, please.
Well, I think thats a very big, positive statement, if they said that. I havent heard it. Ive been here and having lots of different meetings. We just had a very good meeting with Pakistan, by the way. We had a great meeting on religious liberty, I think, when you get right down to it, Mike. That was pretty much incredible.
It was the first time that the President of the United States was involved in a meeting such as that. No, I think that Boris Johnson made a strong statement saying that hed like to see a new agreement. And I think thats good. And if what youre saying about Yemen is true, I like that also. We havent heard that yet.
Thats a very positive thing if thats the case.
I didnt say that at all.
I didnt say that at all. It may get released. I didnt say that at all. I dont think its a great precedent to be releasing calls with foreign countries -- heads of foreign countries. So I dont think its a great precedent, so I didnt say I was going to release it at all. I will tell you, its a great call.
Its a very honorable call. Its a nice call. The Ukrainian government, last night, very strongly, they announced that this call was a very nice call. There was -- and they also said there was no pressure put on them, like the character over to your left. There was no pressure put on them whatsoever. I put no pressure on them whatsoever.
I could have. I think it would probably, possibly, have been okay if I did. But I didnt. I didnt put any pressure on them whatsoever. You know why? Because they want to do the right thing. And they know about corruption. And they probably know that Joe Biden and his son are corrupt. They probably know that.
Joe Biden and his son are corrupt. All right? But the fake news doesnt want to report it because theyre Democrats. If that ever happened -- if a Republican ever did what Joe Biden did, if a Republican ever said what Joe Biden said, theyd be getting the electric chair by right now. Look at the double standards.
