Donald Trump|Press Conference: Donald Trump Meets With Reporters After Election Day 2018|November 7, 2018
Thank you. Thank you very much. Please, thank you. It was a big day yesterday. An incredible day. And last night, the Republican Party defied history to expand our Senate Majority while significantly beating expectations in the House for the midtown and midterm year. We did this in spite of a very dramatic fundraising disadvantage driven by Democrats wealthy donors and special interests, and very hostile media coverage, to put it mildly.
The media coverage set a new record and a new standard. We also had a staggering number of House retirements. So its a little tough. These are seats that couldve been held pretty easily, and we had newcomers going in, and a lot of them worked very hard. But its very difficult when you have that many retirements.
We held a large number of campaign rallies with large, large numbers of people going to every one -- and to the best of my knowledge, we didnt have a vacant or an empty seat; Im sure you would have reported it if you spotted one -- including 30 rallies in the last 60 days. And we saw the candidates that I supported achieve great success last night.
As an example, of the 11 candidates we campaigned with during the last week, 9 won last night. This vigorous campaigning stopped the blue wave that they talked about. I dont know if there ever was such a thing, but couldve been. If we didnt do the campaign, probably there couldve been. And the history really will see what a good job we did in the final couple of weeks in terms of getting some tremendous people over the finish line.
They really are tremendous people, but many of them were not known. But they will be known. This election marks the largest Senate gains for a Presidents party in a first midterm election since at least President Kennedys in 1962. There have been only four midterm elections since 1934 in which a Presidents party has gained even a single Senate seat.
As of now, we picked up, it looks like, three. Could be four. Perhaps it could be two. But we picked up a lot. And most likely, that number will be three. You people probably know that better than I do at this point, because youve looked at the more recent numbers. Fifty-five is the largest number of Republican senators in the last 100 years.
In the last 80 years, a sitting Presidents party has only gained a cumulative total of eight Senate seats, averaging one per decade. So, if we picked up two, three, or four, thats a big percentage of that number. So in the last 80 years -- you think of that -- only eight seats. In President Obamas first midterm election, he lost six Senate seats, including in the deep-blue state of Massachusetts.
Republicans captured at least four Senate seats held by Democrat incumbents. And these are tremendously talented, hardworking people that did this -- Indiana, North Dakota, Florida, Missouri. We also won two open Senate seats in Tennessee -- I want to congratulate our great champion who did such a great job in Tennessee, Marsha -- and in Utah.
And Arizona is looking very good. Really, very good. Shes done a terrific job. That was a tough race, and shes done a fantastic job. In each of these open seats, Democrats recruited very strong candidates with substantial fundraising and media support. We were getting bombarded with money on the other side.
In the House, Republicans dramatically outperformed historical precedents and overcame a historic number of retirements -- the most House Republican retirements in 88 years; 43 House Republicans retired. Now, I will say this -- that, in many cases, they were chairman of committees, and they left because they werent chairman, because the Republicans have a rule -- for six years.
And what that does is wonderful in one way; it lets people come through the system and become chairman. And, in another way, it drives people out. Because when theyre a chairman, they dont want to go and not be a chairman. Youre the chairman of a committee, and youre a big deal, and then all of a sudden youre not doing that anymore.
So they leave. We had a lot of them leave. I guess you can flip a coin as to which system is better. The Democrats do the other. Some of their folks have been in these committees for a long time as chairman. In 2010, President Obamas first midterm, he lost 63 seats. By contrast, as of the most current count, it looks like around 27 House seats or something.
And well figure that out pretty soon. We also had a slew of historic wins in the governors races -- the governors races were incredible -- against very well-funded, talented, and skilled Democrat candidates and people that worked very, very hard, respectfully, for those candidates, like Oprah Winfrey, who I like.
I dont know if she likes me anymore, but thats okay. She used to. But she worked very hard in Georgia. Very, very hard. And if you look at them, we won four governors races crucial to 2020 and the presidential race: Florida, Iowa, Ohio, and Georgia. The big ones: Florida, Iowa, Ohio, and Georgia. Cant get much more important than that.
They were incredible. They were actually incredible campaigns, too. Incredible. As of right now, Republicans will control the majority of governorships across the country, including three great women who worked very hard: the governors of Alabama, South Dakota, and Iowa. They worked very, very hard. Theyre very talented.
By expanding our Senate majority, the voters have also clearly rebuked the Senate Democrats for their handling of the Kavanaugh hearings. That was a factor. I think maybe a very big factor. The way that was handled, I think, was -- tremendous energy was given to the Republican Party by the way they treated then-Judge Kavanaugh, now Justice Kavanaugh.
And expressed their support for confirming more great pro-Constitution judges. Candidates who embraced our message of low taxes, low regulations, low crime, strong borders, and great judges excelled last night. They excelled. They really -- I mean, we have a list of people that were fantastic, and Im just going to point them out: Mike Bost; Rodney Davis; Andy Barr was fantastic.
I went to Kentucky -- for the most part, I didnt campaign for the House, but I did actually make a special trip for Andy Barr because he was in a very tough race in Kentucky, and he won. That was a very tough race. The polls were all showing that he was down, and down substantially. And he won. And that one, I did do. Pete Stauber, of Minnesota.
Great guy. Hes new and ran a fantastic race. On the other hand, you had some that decided to "lets stay away." "Lets stay away." They did very poorly. Im not sure that I should be happy or sad, but I feel just fine about it. Carlos Curbelo; Mike Coffman -- too bad, Mike; Mia Love. I saw Mia Love. Shed call me all the time to help her with a hostage situation.
Being held hostage in Venezuela. But Mia Love gave me no love, and she lost. Too bad. Sorry about that, Mia. And Barbara Comstock was another one. I mean, I think she could have run that race, but she didnt want to have any embrace. For that, I dont blame her. But she -- she lost. Substantially lost. Peter Roskam didnt want the embrace.
Erik Paulsen didnt want the embrace. And in New Jersey, I think he could have done well, but didnt work out too good. Bob Hugin, I feel badly because I think thats something that could have been won. Thats a race that could have been won. Thats a race that could have been won. John Faso. Those are some of the people that, you know, decided for their own reason not to embrace, whether its me or what we stand for.
But what we stand for meant a lot to most people. And weve had tremendous support, and tremendous support in the Republican Party. Among the biggest support in the history of the party. Ive actually heard, at 93 percent, its a record. But I wont say that, because who knows. But weve had tremendous support.
America is booming like never before. Doing fantastic. We have Larry Kudlow here, and he said the numbers are as good as hes ever seen -- numbers -- at any time for our country. But hes a young man, so he hasnt seen that many numbers.  Wheres Larry? Youre a young man. Right, Larry? And you havent been doing this too long, but theyre as good as youve ever seen.
And we may have -- if you have a question for Larry, well do that. But I want to send my warmest appreciation in regards to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. We really worked very well together. We have been working very well together. We actually have a great relationship. People just dont understand that, which is fine.
And also to, perhaps -- it looks like, I would think -- Speaker Nancy Pelosi. And I give her a lot of credit. She works very hard, and shes worked long and hard. I give her a great deal of credit for what shes done and what shes accomplished. Hopefully, we can all work together next year to continue delivering for the American people, including on economic growth, infrastructure, trade, lowering the cost of prescription drugs.
These are some of things that the Democrats do want to work on, and I really believe well be able to do that. I think were going to have a lot of reason to do it. And I will say, just as a matter of business, I was with some very successful people last night. We were watching the returns. So if the Republicans won -- and lets say we held on by two, or one, or three -- it wouldve been very hard out of that many Republicans to ever even get support among Republicans, because there will always be one, or two, or three people that, for a good reason or for a bad reason, or for grandstanding -- we have that too; youve seen that.
Youve seen that. Plenty of grandstanding. But for certain reasons that many people -- youre always going to have a couple that wont do it. So that puts us in a very bad position. In other words, had we kept it, and this is no -- Im saying this for very basic reasons, common sense -- it puts us in a very tough position.
We win by one, or two, or three, and youll have one, or two, or three, or four or five even, come over and say, you know, "Look, were not going to along with this. We want this, this, this…" And all of a sudden, we cant even -- we wouldnt even be able to get, in many cases, out of the Republicans hands before we sent it on to the Senate.
And now we have a much easier path, because the Democrats will come to us with a plan for infrastructure, a plan for healthcare, a plan for whatever they are looking at, and well negotiate. And as you know, its been very hard in the Senate because we need, essentially, 10 votes from Democrats, and we dont get those votes.
Because the Democrats do really stick together well. I dont agree with them on a lot of policy, but I agree with them on sticking together. They stick together great. So now we go into the Senate. We dont have the 10 votes. And what happens? It doesnt get passed. Even if it gets out of the House, it doesnt get passed.
So under the new concept of what were doing, I say, "Come on. Let me see what you have." They want to do things. You know, I keep hearing about investigations fatigue. Like from the time -- almost from the time I announced I was going to run, theyve been giving us this investigation fatigue. Its been a long time.
They got nothing. Zero. You know why? Because there is nothing. But they can play that game, but we can play it better. Because we have a thing called the United States Senate. And a lot of very questionable things were done between leaks of classified information, and many other elements that should not have taken place.
And all youre going to do is end up in back and forth, and back and forth. And two years is going to go up, and we wont have done a thing. I really think, and I really respected what Nancy said last night about bipartisanship and getting together and uniting. She used the word "uniting" and she used the word the bipartisanship statement, which is so important because thats what we should be doing.
So we can look at us, they can look at us, and we can look at them, and itll go back and forth. And itll probably be very good for me politically. I could see it being extremely good politically, because I think Im better at that game than they are, actually. But well find out. I mean, you know, well find out.
Or we can work together. You cant do them simultaneously, by the way. Just think if somebody said, "Oh, you can do them both." No, you cant. Because if theyre doing that, were not doing the other, just so you understand. So we wont be doing that. But now what happens is we send it to the Senate, and well get 100 percent Democrat support, and well get some Republican support.
And if its good, I really believe we have Republicans that will help with the approval process -- and they will really help with the approval process. So it really could be a beautiful bipartisan type of situation. If we won by one or two or three, or four or five, that wouldnt happen. And the closer it is, the worse it is. This way, theyll come to me, well negotiate.
Maybe well make a deal, maybe we wont. Thats possible. But we have a lot of things in common on infrastructure. We want to do something on healthcare; they want to do something on healthcare. There are a lot of great things that we can do together. And now well send it up and we will really get -- well get the Democrats and well get the Republicans, or some of the Republicans.
And Ill make sure that we send something up that the Republicans can support, and theyre going to want to make sure they send something up that the Democrats can support. So our great country is booming like never before, and were thriving on every single level, both in terms of economic and military strength; in terms of development.
In terms of GDP, were doing unbelievably. I will tell you, our trade deals are coming along fantastically. The USMCA and South Korea is finished. USMCA has gotten rave reviews. Not going to lose companies anymore to other countries. Theyre not going to do that because they have a tremendous economic incentive, meaning its prohibitive for them to do that.
So its not going to be like NAFTA, which is one of the worst deals Ive ever seen -- although weve made some other pretty bad ones too. Now is the time for members of both parties to join together, put partisanship aside, and keep the American economic miracle going strong. It is a miracle. Were doing so well.
And Ive said it at a lot of rallies. Some of you have probably heard it so much you dont want to hear it again. But when people come to my office -- presidents, prime ministers -- they all congratulate me, almost the first thing, on what weve done economically. Because it is really amazing. And our steel industry is back.
Our aluminum industry is starting to do really well. These are industries that were dead. Our miners are working again. We must all work together to protect our military -- I have to do that -- to support out law enforcement, secure our borders, and advance really great policy, including environmental policy.
We want crystal-clean water. We want beautiful, perfect air. Air and water, it has to be perfect. At the same time, we dont want to put ourselves at a disadvantage to other countries who are very competitive with us and who dont abide by the rules at all. We dont want to hurt our jobs. We dont want to hurt our factories.
We dont want companies leaving. We want to be totally competitive, and we are. And right now we have just about the cleanest air, the cleanest water weve ever had, and its always going to be that way. We insist on it. So environmental is very important to me. And with that, Ill take a few questions if youd like.
Woah.  I didnt know what happened. All right, go ahead, John. That was a lot of hands shooting up so quickly.
Theres a lot to talk about.
I think theres a good chance, John. I think theres a very good chance that --
-- it will happen.
Well, then everything is going to come -- okay.
Ready? Then youre going to -- if that happens, then were going to do the same thing and government comes to a halt. And I would blame them because they now are going to be coming up with policy. Theyre the majority in the House. I expect that they will come up with some fantastic ideas that I can support on the environment, on so many different things, including prescription drug prices -- which weve made a big dent in already, including some of the things that were working on for the vets.
Weve gotten choice approved. Weve gotten a lot of things approved. But they have some other elements that we want. There are many things we can get along on without a lot of trouble -- that we agree very much with them and they agree with us. I would like to see bipartisanship. I would like to see unity.
And I think we have a very good chance of -- and maybe not on everything -- but I think we have a very good chance of seeing that. Go ahead.
Not necessarily my last chance.
Look, I speak to Democrats all the time. They agree that a wall is necessary. Wall is necessary. And as you know, were building the wall. Weve started. But we should build it at one time, not in chunks.
No, we need the money to build the wall -- the whole wall -- not pieces of it all over. And we are doing it. Now we have the military. Now we have other elements of wall that are pretty nasty, to be honest with you. But its -- nevertheless, its pretty hard to get through it. But no, Id like to see the wall.
Many of the people that well be dealing with, you know, in 2006, they approved the wall, essentially. It was a very strong border fence, but it was the same thing. And they all approved it; they all agreed. I have statements from every one of them. We have them saying, "We need the wall." I mean, they sound like me. But we do need it because we have people coming -- and Im not just talking about the caravans.
We have people coming through our border that you physically cant put that many people. Its a 2,000-mile stretch. You cant put that many people along that stretch to guard it. And even if you did, tremendous fighting would ensue. So we need the wall. Many Democrats know we need the wall. And were just going to have to see what happens.
I mean, well be fighting for it. They have done everything in their power to make sure were -- I got the military $700 billion and $716 billion. The wall is a tiny, tiny fraction of the cost of that. But their whole agenda has been to try not giving me anything for the wall. I really believe, politically, theyre hurting themselves.
I actually think, politically, thats a good thing for me. But I want to get the wall up because we need it for security.
I dont know. I cant tell you that. No, I cant commit to that, but its possible.
Id rather answer that at a little bit different time. Were looking at a lot of different things, including Cabinet. Im very happy with most of my Cabinet. Were looking at different people for different positions. You know, its very common after the midterms. I didnt want to do anything before the midterms.
But I will tell you that, for the most part, Im extremely happy with my Cabinet. I think Mike Pompeo has fit in so beautifully. Hes done an incredible job as --
Were looking at that, and I want -- I do want to study whatever is being said. I think hes doing --
I think hes doing an excellent job, but we will take a look at that in a very strong -- and well probably have an idea about that in about a week.
Okay? Thank you. Wow, this is -- Go ahead, Jon. He gave me a fair interview the other day, so I might as well ask him a question.
I think I am an open book.
Well, look, as I have told you, theyre under audit. They have been for a long time. Theyre extremely complex. People wouldnt understand them. Theyre done by among the biggest and best law firms in the country. Same thing with the accounting firms. The accountants are -- a very, very larger, powerful firm, from the standpoint of respect.
Highly respected. Big firm. A great law firm. You know it very well. They do these things; they put them in. But people dont understand tax returns. Now, I did do a filing of over 100 pages, I believe, which is in the offices. And when people went and saw that filing and they saw the magnitude of it, they were very disappointed.
And they saw the -- you know, the detail. Youd get far more from that. And I guess we filed that now three times. But you get far more from that than you could ever get from a tax return. But when youre under audit -- and Im on under very continuous audit because there are so many companies, and it is a very big company -- far bigger than you would even understand.
But its a great company, but its big and its complex. And its probably feet high. Its a very complex instrument. And I think that people wouldnt understand it. But if I were finished with the audit, I would have an open mind to it. I would say that. But I dont want to do it during the audit. And, really, no lawyer -- even from the other side, they say often -- not always -- but when youre under audit, you dont have -- you dont subject it to that.
You get it done, and then you release it. So when that happens, if that happens, I would certainly have an open mind to it.
When its under audit -- no, nobody would. Nobody turns over a return when its under audit, okay? Yeah, go ahead. Please.
Why do I like Oprah?
What kind of a question is that?
Hes a comedian here.
I do like Oprah, by the way. I do. She was a person I knew well. Came to my place in Palm Beach often. And I have a lot of respect for her. Unfortunately, she didnt do the trick.
No. Negotiation. Not at all.
Oh, yeah. Better than them.
And I think I know more -- and I think I know more than they know.
No.
No. If they do that, then its just -- all it is, is a warlike posture. Yeah, go ahead.
You heard my answer. Go ahead.
Here we go.
Lets go. Lets go. Come on.
I consider it to be an invasion.
Thank you for telling me that. I appreciate it.
Because I consider it an invasion. You and I have a difference of opinion.
Not at all. No, not at all.
I want them -- I want them to come into the country, but they have to come in legally. You know, they have to come in, Jim, through a process. I want it to be a process. And I want people to come in. And we need the people.
Wait. Wait. Wait. You know why we need the people, dont you? Because we have hundreds of companies moving in. We need the people.
Well, thats true. They werent actors. They werent actors.
They werent actors. Well, no, it was true. Do you think they were actors? They werent actors. They didnt come from Hollywood. These were -- these were people -- this was an actual -- you know, it happened a few days ago. And --
You know what?
I think you should -- honestly, I think you should let me run the country, you run CNN --
-- and if you did it well, your ratings would be much better.
Okay, thats enough.
Okay, Peter, go ahead.
Thats enough. Thats enough. Thats enough.
Thats enough. Thats enough.
Excuse me, thats enough.
Peter. Lets go.
Im not concerned about anything with the Russia investigation because its a hoax.
Thats enough. Put down the mic.
Ill tell you what: CNN should be ashamed of itself having you working for them. You are a rude, terrible person. You shouldnt be working for CNN. Go ahead.
Youre a very rude person. The way you treat Sarah Huckabee is horrible. And the way you treat other people are horrible. You shouldnt treat people that way. Go ahead. Go ahead, Peter. Go ahead.
Well, Im not a big fan of yours either. So, you know.
To be honest with you.
You arent -- you arent the best.
Okay, just sit down, please.
Well, when you report fake news --
No. When you report fake news, which CNN does a lot, you are the enemy of the people. Go ahead.
Because theyre very weak on crime.
Excuse me. Peter. Peter, what are you -- trying to be him?
Peter, just let me just -- let me just tell you, very simple: Because theyre very weak on crime. Because they have often suggested -- members and people within the Democrat Party, at a high level, have suggested getting rid of ICE, getting rid of law enforcement. Thats not going to happen, okay? We want to be strong on the borders.
We want to be strong on law enforcement. And I want to -- I want to cherish ICE because ICE does a fantastic job. The -- what they do for us is so -- really, its so unrecognized how good a job they do. So we want to take care of them, and we want to hold them very close because they do a good job.
Okay, yeah, go ahead.
Thank you very much. Sit. Sit down, Peter.
Im not.
No, Im not. Well, look, Ill tell you what -- we won a lot of elections last night. We did very well last night, and I think its going to have --
-- I think its going to have a very positive impact. I watched NBC this morning; they didnt report it exactly correctly, but thats, you know, very, very -- thats the fact with NBC. Nothing I can do about that. But I want this country to have protection. We want security in our country. I want security, Peter.
I mean, you maybe dont think its so important. And I think when you dont have it, you are indeed unleashing crime. I feel that. Go ahead. Go ahead.
You will answer -- youll ask me that question a little bit later. Go ahead.
Go ahead. Sure.
Its been a long time.
I could have ended it anytime I wanted. I didnt. And there was so collusion. There was no anything. I didnt. They went after hackers in Moscow. I dont know about that. They went after people with tax problems, from years ago. They went after people with loans and other things. Had nothing to do with my campaign.
This is a investigation where many, many millions of dollars has been spent. And theres no collusion. It was supposed to be on collusion. Theres no collusion. And I think its -- I think its very bad for our country, I will tell you. I think its a shame. And a poll came out today -- by the way, from NBC -- or least I saw it on NBC -- where a majority of the people do not agree with the Mueller investigation, or it wasnt approved.
They have approval and disapproval, and it had a much higher disapproval. It should end because its very bad for our country. Its --
-- and Im not just talking about the tremendous expense. And the other thing is, they should look at the other side also. They only look at one side. Theyre not looking at all of the things that came up during this investigation. They dont do that. They should also get people that can be fair, not 13 or 14 or 17 -- I call them the "Angry Democrats." They are angry people.
And its a very unfair thing for this country. Its a very, very -- forget about unfair to me; its very bad for our country.
Go ahead. No, no, no. Please.
Give him the mic, please. Ive answered the question.
Go ahead, take the -- take the mic.
Well, Ill give you voter -- I will give you voter suppression. You just have to -- sit down, please.
Sit down. I didnt call you. I didnt call you. I didnt call you. Ill give you voter suppression: Take a look at the CNN polls, how inaccurate they were. Thats called voter suppression. Go ahead, please.
Im not -- Im not responding. Im responding to --
Excuse me, Im not responding to you. Im talking to this gentleman. Will you please sit down?
Would --
Excuse me. Excuse me. Would you please sit down? Please, go ahead.
Very hostile -- such a hostile media. Its so sad. You ask me about --
No. You rudely interrupted him.
You rudely interrupted him. Go ahead.
I think we could really do something having to do with DACA. And what really happened with DACA -- we could have done some pretty good work on DACA. But a judge ruled that DACA was okay. Had the judge not ruled that way, I think we would have made a deal. Once the judge ruled that way, the Democrats didnt want to talk anymore.
So well see how it works out at the Supreme Court. Go ahead.
From where?
Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead.
Go ahead. Which group? Where do you want me to take a question from? Go ahead, maam. Go ahead. Take the -- Either one. Either one.
Or both. Are you together? Go ahead.
I dont think it has been at all.
I dont understand what youre saying. What?
Well, that question -- I can only say this: If you look at the employment and unemployment numbers for African Americans, for Asian Americans, for Hispanic Americans, theyre at a historic high. A poll came out recently where my numbers with Hispanics and with African Americans are the highest -- the best theyve ever been.
That had -- that took place two or three days ago, the poll. I have the best numbers with African American and Hispanic American that Ive ever had before. And you saw the same poll. So, I cant say that. I can say this: If you look at median income, you look at all of the employment and unemployment numbers, theyre doing the best theyve ever done.
And it reflects -- it really is very reflective in the polls. Yes, go ahead.
Good. I understand you very well.
Well, first of all, what were doing -- and were -- if you look at the Department of Labor also -- Secretary separately -- Secretary Azar, what theyve done. Theyve come up with some incredible healthcare plans, which is causing great competition and driving the prices right down. But we are getting rid of the individual mandate because it was very unfair to a lot of people.
But at the same time, were covering the people that need it. But the individual mandate was a disaster because people that couldnt necessarily afford it were having to pay for the privilege of not having to pay for healthcare. And it was bad healthcare, at that. So we are working many plans for healthcare.
Were creating tremendous competition. We had Obamacare repealed and replaced. Unfortunately, one person changed his mind at the last moment. And we had no Democrat support. I have to say that. We didnt have one vote. We would have repealed it, replaced it. We would have had a large-scale, very good healthcare plan.
Now were doing it a different way. Were doing it a different way. But getting rid of the individual mandate is a very, very popular thing and a very important thing. And people very much appreciate it. Go ahead.
No, no. Thats enough. Go ahead, please.
Well, I think the results that Ive learned, and maybe confirm, I think people like me. I think people like the job Im doing, frankly. Because if you look at every place I went to do a rally, I couldnt do it with everybody. But -- and it was very hard to do it with people in Congress because there are just too many -- it will be too many stops.
But I did it with the Senate. I did it with Andy Barr, as you know. And -- and he won. He won a very tough race against McGrath. It was a very, very tough race in Kentucky, and he was down quite a bit. And I went there, and we had a tremendous, very successful -- some of you were at that rally. And he won that race.
But I could only do that so much because there are just so many players involved. But I did focus on the Senate, and we had tremendous success with the Senate. Really tremendous success.
Well, I havent asked him, but I hope so. Where are you?  Mike, will you be my running mate?  Huh? Stand up, Mike, please. Raise your right hand. No, Im only kidding.  Will you? Thank you, okay good.  The answer is "yes." Okay?
That was unexpected, but I feel very fine. Yeah, please.
I could. I could fire everybody right now. But I dont want to stop it, because politically, I dont like stopping it. Its a disgrace. It should have never been started because there was no crime. It is -- everybody has conflicts. They all have conflicts over there that are beyond anything that anybody has ever seen in terms of conflicts -- from the fact that people ask for jobs; from the fact that they have very good friends on the other side, like really good friends, like Comey -- who, by the way, lied and leaked, and also leaked classified information.
Nothing happened there. It might, perhaps. Maybe something is happening that I dont know about. I stay away from it. But do you know what I do? I let it just go on. Theyre wasting a lot of money, but I let it go on because I dont want to do that. But youre right -- I could end it right now. I could say that investigation is over.
But its -- its really -- its a disgrace, frankly. And its an embarrassment to our country. Its an embarrassment to the people of our country. And its too bad. Go ahead.
Well, were looking at that.
No, no. Were looking at that very seriously. Declassification? Were looking at that very seriously.
Its amazing how people on the other side just dont want those documents declassified. But, no, were looking at that very carefully. I certainly wanted to wait until after the midterms.
Go ahead.
Thats right. Tough.
Very tough issue.
Just going to push. Ive been pushing. Ive done a very good job, too. Very happy with me. But its a tough issue for the two sides. Theres no question about it.
There is great division -- what am I going to do? I wont be able to explain that to you, because it is an issue that is a very divisive, polarizing issue. But there is a solution. I think I have that solution, and nobody else does. Were going to be -- were going to be working on that. Yes, go ahead, please.
She took your place, but thats okay.
The farm bill is working really well. I mean, we could have had it approved any time. But were looking to get work rules approved. The farmers want it. Id like it. The problem is, the Democrats are not giving us the 10 votes that we need. We are -- everybody wants it. The farmers want it. But the Democrats are not approving the farm bill with work rules.
We could have it very fast without the work rules, but we want the work rules in, and the Democrats just dont want to vote for that. So, at some point, theyll have to pay maybe a price. Jeff, go ahead.
Thank you very much.
Well, weve going -- were going to make a full report. And unlike the previous administration, weve done a lot of work on that issue. And if you look -- speak with the FBI, speak with the Department of Justice, speak to Homeland Security, weve spent a lot of time. It gets very little coverage in the papers.
I mean, you cover the nonsense part, but you dont cover the important. This is very important. And we have been working very hard on China and Russia, and everybody else, looking into our elections or meddling with our elections. But people tend not to write about it. But we have worked very hard, as you probably heard.
Well, I have a good relationship with both. I know President Xi better. But I think I have a very good relationship with both. I actually had a very good meeting in Russia that you people didnt agree with, but thats okay. It doesnt much matter, obviously. Because here I am.
But the fact is that I had a very, very good meeting -- a very, very good meeting with President Putin, and a lot was discussed about security, about Syria, about Ukraine, about the fact that President Obama allowed a very large part of Ukraine to be taken. Right now, you have submarines off that particular parcel that were talking about.
You know what Im talking about.
That was President Obamas regime. That was during President Obama. Right? That was not during me. No, that was President Obama --
No, no. It was President Obama that allowed it to happen. It had nothing to do with me. Yeah. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead.
Ill be honest: I thought it was a -- I thought it was a very close to complete victory. When you look at it from the standpoint of negotiation, when you look at it from the standpoint of deal making -- because its all about deal making -- again, if we had the majority, and we had one or two or three votes to play with, we would never -- we would have been at a standstill.
I really believe that we have a chance to get along very well with the Democrats. And if thats the case, we can do a tremendous amount of legislation and get it approved by both parties. So I consider it to be -- hey, look, I won Georgia. President Obama campaigned very hard in Georgia. Oprah Winfrey campaigned very, very hard.
All over the television. I said this is going to be tough. I only had me. I didnt have anybody else. And I went to Georgia, and we had one of the largest crowds that anybody here has seen, ever, at a political rally. And you know what? He won. And he won actually by, you know, pretty good margin. He won.
And then we went to Florida, and they had celebrities all over the place. And a man, who happens to be very smart person, was running -- Ron DeSantis. And people didnt give him a chance. And I went and we had -- we did some great work. And theyre going to have a great governor of the state of Florida. And then we talked about the Senate, and a lot of money was pouring in for the Democrat.
This is a man whos been in office for like 44 years or something. This is man who was like a professional at getting elected and being in office. So hes not -- Bill Nelson -- not easy to beat. Okay? And -- but they had a lot of celebrities coming out for Nelson. They had everybody coming out for Nelson.
And Rick Scott won. And I helped him. And I think weve done an amazing job. And you could look at many other places -- if you just take a look at some of the other places. And we just got the word that, in Iowa, you have a governor who just got extended, whos -- Kim just got extended. And numerous other places.
I think it was a great victory. Ill be honest: I think it was a great victory. And actually, some of the news this morning was that it was, in fact, a great victory. But if you look at it from the standpoint of gridlock, I really believe theres going to be much less gridlock because of the way this is going, than any other way.
Sit down, please. Go ahead.
Well, it could be. You know that this will have to be now proposed. Because if we did it now, we dont have the votes in the Senate. You dont have -- we need -- we would need 10 Democrat vote; we probably couldnt get them. If we could, we could pass it very easily in the House. But theres no reason to waste time because you dont have the votes in the Senate.
But if the -- as an example, if the Democrats come up with an idea for tax cuts, which Im a big believer in tax cuts, I would absolutely pursue something even if it means some adjustment.
Some adjustment. Yeah, to make it possible. But I would love to see a tax cut for the middle class. Now, thats going to be their decision. Theyre going to have to make that decision. As you know, if we bring it up to the Senate, wed need Democrat votes -- 10 -- and we dont have those 10 votes.
Oh, Im not telling you that. Im just saying, I would be certainly willing to do a little bit of an adjustment. Go ahead. Behind me. Go ahead, please.
Well, as I understand it, were having -- and I guess a lot of you are going over. Were having a lunch for numerous countries. Ill be there. I believe President Putin is going to be there. We dont have anything scheduled. I dont think we have anything scheduled in Paris. And Im coming back very quickly.
Were going over -- theres a great event. This is an important -- really, its going to be very important and, I think, a very beautiful ceremony. Im looking forward to going. And were representing the incredible heroes of the world, but the heroes of our country from World War I. And so Ill be going there, and I am very proud to go there.
I dont think we have time set aside for that meeting. Now, with that being said, were very shortly meeting again at the G20, where hell be there and Ill be there. And thats where were actually looking forward to meeting. We will be having -- we will be having a lunch, but I think there are many people there.
Well, I think what Ill do is -- as we make changes, well sit down and talk to you about it. I mean, theres no great secret. A lot of administrations make changes after midterms. I will say that, for the most part, Im very, very happy with this Cabinet. Were doing a great job.
Well, thats okay. No, people leave. People leave.
People leave. I havent heard about John Kelly. But, no, people -- people leave. They come in, theyre here. Its a very exhausting job. Although, I love doing it, I must tell you. But its exhausting for a lot of people. Im surprised at a lot of people. They start off, theyre young people, theyre there for two years, and theyre old by the time they leave.
Its quite exhausting. But I love doing it. And Ill tell you, there will be changes. Nothing monumental from that standpoint. I dont think very much different than most administrations. But -- and we have -- I mean, we have many people lined up for every single position. Any position. Everybody wants to work in this White House.
We are a hot country. This is a hot White House. We are a White House that people want to work with. Okay. No, no. Please. Behind you. Behind you. Go ahead.
Its been a very challenging campaign. Thats true.
Right.
Its a very fair question. Look, I would love to see unity and peace and love, and any other word you want to use. And obviously, I think we had to, especially at this particular juncture, we had to wait until after the midterms were over. Now theyre over. If they would cover me fairly -- which they dont. Which they dont. Im not saying that in a hostile way.
I get extremely inaccurate coverage. I can do something thats fantastic, and theyll make it look like not good. And I dont mind being -- having bad stories. If I make a mistake, cover it. I would like you to cover it fairly, but cover it. But when you do something terrific -- look how little the economy is talked about.
A poll came out this morning talking about how little the three networks -- I dont think they included CNN -- but how little the three networks talk about how good the economy is. How little. Almost not at all. If President Obama had this economy -- and, by the way, if that administration, through somebody else, kept going, you would have had negative 4.2 instead of positive 4.2 percent growth.
You would have had negative. It was heading down. But here -- the point is this --
Excuse me. I would love to see unity, including with the media. Because I think the media -- Ill be honest: I think its a very divisive thing for our country. And you would be amazed at how smart people are that are reading your stories and seeing your stories and watching. You would be amazed how perceptive and how smart they are.
They get it. And it really does bring disunity.
Excuse me. You are not -- you are not called on.
Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead, please.
Say it? You have to speak up.
Well, God plays a big factor in my life, and God plays a factor in the lives of many people that I know very well in this room, like your Vice President. God plays a very big role in my life.
Nothing surprises me in politics.
But there were some losses last night. And there were some victories last night that have been incredible. I mean, there were victories last night that nobody would believe, especially based on the suppression polls. They had a lot of suppression polls.
And there were some victories last night that were very surprising, but Im not going to pick out special -- you know, special people.
Its tough enough for those people to have a loss.
Would I what? What?
I know a couple of very good ones. Yeah, I would, actually. Go ahead, please.
I would love to have -- I would love to have -- Id be very good at a low tone. But when things are done not correctly about you -- written about you, said about you on television, on wherever it is -- you have to defend yourself. I would love to do a very -- a very even tone. Its much easier than what I have to do. I have to go around.
And going around is much easier than facing somebody and being treated fairly. But when youre not treated fairly, you really have no choice. I would love to have a very even, modest, boring tone. I would be very honored by that. But you know what? When you have to fight -- all the time fight -- because youre being misrepresented by the media, you really cant do that.
Yes, please. Go ahead.
Where are you from, please?
Okay. Say hello. Say hello to Shinzo.
Im sure hes happy about tariffs on his cars. Go ahead.
I dont -- I really dont understand you.
Trade with Japan?
Well, were dealing with Japan right now on trade. Japan has -- its a great country. You have a great Prime Minister who just had a very successful election. Hes a very good friend of mine. Hes one of the people Im closest with. And -- but I tell him all the time that Japan does not treat the United States fairly on trade.
They send in millions of cars at a very low tax. They dont take our cars. And if they do, they have a massive tax on their cars. Japan -- and Im not blaming Japan; Im blaming the people that were in charge of the United States for allowing that to happen. But as you know, we have close to $100 billion trade deficit with Japan.
And Japan has treated us very unfairly. But dont feel lonely because you werent the only one.
Yeah, nothing --
No, were going to change it because of trips that are being made. Were going to make it at another date. But were very happy how its going with North Korea. We think its going fine. Were in no rush. Were in no hurry. The sanctions are on.
No, no. Listen. Excuse me. Wait.
The sanctions are on. The missiles have stopped. The rockets have stopped. The hostages are home. The great heroes have been coming home. Mike Pence was in Hawaii, where the -- one of the most beautiful ceremonies that anyone has ever seen for the fallen. These are great heroes. Very important. When I was running, a lot of people -- as many years ago as it was -- in many cases, grandchildren -- but they were asking about that.
Theyre coming home and theyre being provided to us as we speak. But Im in no rush. Im in no rush. The sanctions are on. I read a couple of times, and Ive seen a few times where they said, "Hes done so much." What have I done? I met. Now, Id love to take the sanctions off. But they have to be responsive, too.
Its a two-way street. But were not in any rush at all. Theres no rush whatsoever. You know, before I got here, they were dealing with this for over 70 years. And I guess, on a nuclear front, for 25 years. Thats a long time. Ive been there; I probably left Singapore four or five months ago. And we made more progress in that four or five months than theyve made in 70 years.
And nobody else could have done what Ive done. But Ill say this -- Ill say this very simply: Were in no rush. The sanctions are on. And whenever it is -- but that meeting is going to be rescheduled.
Sometime next year, I would say.
Sometime -- sometime early next year. Yeah.
Yes, I have. We have a very good relationship.
True. Thats true.
Its very sad to see it. I hate to see it. And, as you know, Ive done more -- in fact, if you were with us the last time we met, Prime Minister Netanyahu said that, "This President has done more for Israel than any other President." Those words. Those exact words. Jerusalem, protection, working together -- so many different things.
But the big thing is Jerusalem. You know, many, many President have said they are going to build the embassy in Jerusalem. Never happened. Making it the capital of Israel -- never happened. Never happened. But it happened with me, and quickly. And not only did it happen, we built the embassy. That would have taken another 15 or 20 years and cost probably billions of dollars, and we did it for a tiny amount of money.
Its already done. Its open. Nobody has done more for Israel than Donald Trump. And the nice part is thats not me saying it; thats Prime Minister Netanyahu.
Well, we want to see -- we want to see it healed. And one of the things I think that can help heal is the success of our country. We are really successful now. Weve gone up $11.7 trillion in -- in worth. If you know, China has come down tremendously. Tremendously. China would have superseded us in two years as an economic power; now, theyre not even close.
China got rid of their "China 25" because I found it very insulting. I said that to them. I said, "China 25" is very insulting, because "China 25" means, in 2025, theyre going to take over, economically, the world. I said, "Thats not happening." And weve gone way up. Theyve gone down. And I dont want them to go down.
Well have a good meeting and were going to see what we can do. But I have to say this: Billions of dollars will soon be pouring into our Treasury from taxes that China is paying for us. And if you speak to Mr. Pillsbury, who probably is the leading authority on China -- he was on the other day saying he has never seen anything like it. And you know who else hasnt? China hasnt.
But were going to try and make a deal with China because I want to have great relationships with President Xi, as I do, and also with China.
Okay.
All right.
Go ahead, please.
Go ahead, please. Please, please.
Please, please. Go ahead. Theres so many people, Im sorry. Go ahead.
I think I am a great moral leader, and I love our country. Go ahead, please.
Well, I think its inappropriate -- no, no. I think its very inappropriate. We should get along and get deals done. Now, we can investigate. They look at us. We look at them. It goes on for two years. Then, at the end of two years, nothing is done. Now, whats bad for them is, being in the majority, Im just going to blame them.
You understand. Im going to blame them. Theyre the majority. Honestly, it makes it much simpler for me. I -- they will be blamed. But I think Nancy Pelosi -- and, you know, I put that statement out on social media today about Nancy Pelosi that, if shes short of votes -- because frankly, I think she deserves -- and a lot of people thought I was being sarcastic or I was kidding.
I wasnt. I think she deserves it. Shes been fighting long for it. Shes been fighting -- I really mean this. This was -- there was nothing sarcastic about it or -- it was really meant in -- with very good intentions. I think she deserves it. Shes fought long and hard. Shes a very capable person. And, you know, you have other people shooting at her, trying to take over the Speakership.
And I said, if -- if its appropriate -- I said, if we can and if we will, if she has a problem, I think I would be able to very easily supply her the necessary votes. Thats not said in any way other than I really believe she deserves that position. I also believe that Nancy Pelosi and I can work together and get a lot of things done, along with Mitch and everybody else that we have to work with.
I think well get a lot done.
Okay, go ahead.
Go ahead.
Excuse me?
I think we will. Look, now that the election is over -- the election is over. Now everybody is in love. But then I see the hostility of questions in the room. I come in here as a nice person wanting to answer questions and I have people jumping out of their -- their seats, screaming questions at me. No, the election is over.
And Im, you know, very -- I am extraordinarily happy. I really am. And, by the way, Id tell you if I wasnt. Look at what happened in Florida. Look at what happened in Georgia. Look at what happened in so many locations with governorships. Nobody talks about the governorships. Look at the amount of work that was given to these other candidates against my candidate.
And, I mean, Im extraordinarily happy. And if I wasnt, Id let you know. Theres nothing wrong. I mean, look, you look at midterms and you look at elections -- elections generally, you see its very rare that a party who has the presidency does well. We did unbelievably well. To win Florida, both the Senate and the governorship against two very talented people.
Ill tell you what: We did incredibly. To win Georgia, where you had some of the biggest stars campaigning endlessly, including President Obama. You know, Ill tell you what: This was a great victory for us. And again, from a dealmaking standpoint, we are all much better off the way it turned out. Because I really believe, if the Democrats want to, we can do a tremendous amount of great legislation.
Yes, please. Go ahead. Should we keep this going for a little while?
When you get bored, would you please tell me? Seriously, tell me. I dont want to --
Oh, no. Hopefully not. I dont want to overstay. But, yes, please. Go ahead.
I dont know why youd say that. Thats such a racist question.
Oh, I dont believe that. I dont believe that. I dont believe -- well, I dont know. Why do I have my highest poll numbers ever with African Americans? Why do I have among the highest poll numbers with African Americans? I mean, why do I have my highest poll numbers? Thats such a racist question. Honestly, I mean, I know you have it written down, and youre going to tell me. Let me tell you: Its a racist question.
I love -- and you know what the word is? I love our country. I do. You call -- you have nationalists. You have globalists. I also love the world and I dont mind helping the world, but we have to straighten out our country first. We have a lot of problems.
Excuse me. But to say that -- what you said is so insulting to me. Its a very terrible thing that you said.
Okay. Please, go ahead. Go ahead.
Excuse me.
You have to ask them.
Excuse me.
You know what my plan is? You know what my plan is? Ill ask them. And if they say yes, Im all for it. And if they say no, theres nothing you can do because you need their votes. Go ahead.
Its not a question of want. I wouldve -- so, let me answer it a little -- would I have preferred winning by two or three or four? I would almost have to think about that. But certainly, I like to win. And if I win, shes not going to be Speaker.
Honestly, we had a very warm conversation. You know, she loves this country. And shes a very smart woman. Shes done a very good job. She was really -- I mean, shes had a very -- shes had a very --
Shes had a very, very -- we didnt talk about impeaching. We didnt talk about -- what do you do? Do you impeach somebody because he created the greatest economic success in the history of our country? "Lets impeach him because the country is so successful. Lets impeach him." "Has he done anything wrong?" They asked somebody, "Has he done anything wrong?" "No, but lets impeach him anyway." And they also said, "Lets impeach Justice Kavanaugh.
Lets impeach him." And now they have the second woman coming out that -- the first or second. And I hate to say this, but it was public. "And, after him, were going to impeach the Vice President. Were going to impeach Mike Pence." Mike Pence doesnt get impeached for anything. "So lets impeach the President, and then well impeach the Vice President." These people are sick.
And you know what? They have to get their bearing. Really, they have to get their bearing. And when you ask about division, theyre the ones that caused the division. They caused tremendous division.
Who is retiring?
Many retirements, yeah.
In Jeff Flakes case, its me. Pure and simple. I retired him. Im very proud of it. I did the country a great service. Go ahead. Give him a -- . Give him a -- he is retired. Id like to call it another word, but were going to treat him with great respect. Go ahead.
Jeff Flake. Thats another beauty. Go ahead.
No, one. One. One. One. Too many people. Sorry.
No. No.
No. You know, when I dont do the -- I think Sarah is fantastic. Where is Sarah? Where is Sarah? Sarah is so great. I think, Sarah, youve represented me so well and been abused. Shes been horribly treated by a lot of people.
No, no. Its very interesting because Sarah was telling -- we were talking about it the other day. So I had a period where I figured, you know what Ill do? I wont do any real interviews. And then they start saying, "Why doesnt he do -- why?" And theyre all coming up with all kinds -- Then over the last couple of months I decided, Ill do a lot -- well stop at the helicopter, well do this, well do a lot of -- and then they say, "Why is he doing so many press conferences?
Whats wrong? What?" So when I dont do them, you say, "Whats wrong?" When I do do them, you say, "Whats wrong?" And when I go in the middle, you say, "Whats wrong?" But in the media -- you know that, Jon. Right?
Youre sort of right.
Okay, good.
No, no. You did. Excuse me. Well, you complained about access when I purposely just stayed away from the press for a while because I wanted to see how it worked. And can I be honest with you? It didnt work well.
Okay, please. Go ahead. No. Go ahead.
I do, too. Actually? I do, too.
Its called "earned media." Its worth billions. Go ahead.
I know. Sure. But I didnt say it prevented me, I said lawyers will tell you not to do it. Go ahead. Whats your next question? Go ahead.
Come on. Lets go. More exciting question than that, please.
Thats false.
Thats false.
I dont know who Lil Jon is. I dont -- I really dont.
I dont know. Oh, he was? Okay. Oh, I see. I dont know.
No. No, I would never do that and I dont use racist remarks. And you know what? If I did, you people wouldve known about it. Ive been hearing there are tapes. For years and years, "There are tapes." Number one, I never worried about it because I never did. I never used racist remarks. I have never used racist remarks.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Quiet. Quiet.
Quiet. Quiet. Go ahead.
See, when you talk about division, its people like this that cause division. Great division.
Great -- no. No, point of fact is that I never used a racist remark. Thats the point of fact.
Where -- who are you from?
Yahoo! -- oh, Yahoo! -- oh, good. Good, I hope theyre doing well.
Where are you from?
Lebanon. Good.
Who said that?
I know. I know.
I just cant understand his speak --
So let me just say about the oil, okay? So were -- we imposed, just recently, the strongest sanctions in the history of our country, just about. Although I guess North Korea is there, too. But I gave some countries a break on the oil. I did it a little bit because they really asked for some help. But I really did it because I dont want to drive oil prices up to $100 a barrel or $150 a barrel, because Im driving them down.
If you look at oil prices, theyve come down very substantially over the last couple of months. Thats because of me. Because you have a monopoly called "OPEC." And I dont like -- wait.
And I dont like that monopoly. I dont like it. And oil prices are coming down. So rather than deciding to be as tough as I am on most of the sanctions, what Ive done is I said, "Were not going to do it that way; were going to let some of the oil go out to these countries that really do need it because I dont want to drive the oil prices up to $100 or $150 a barrel, which could happen very easily.
Its a very fragile market. Very, very fragile. I know it very well. And its the absolute right decision. And theyll get tougher as time goes by, maybe, but I dont want to have any effect on the oil prices worldwide, where I drive them up. Because I consider that to be a tax, and I dont like taxes. Go ahead.
Go ahead. Please. Please.
Who?
Oh, congratulations to Jon Tester. Congratulations. Im sure youre very unhappy about that. Go ahead.
Yes. Please, go ahead.
Well take a couple of more, and then well go.
Do you think thats the reason that the candidate lost?
Well, I mean, look, I wasnt involved in Georgia. I wasnt.
Other than I love the state. I do love the state.
I heard it was very efficient in Georgia. I heard it was very efficient. But again, youd have to ask the state governments because -- just one of those things youre going to have to ask them. Yeah, go ahead. Please. Please, go ahead.
I would -- I would do that. Yeah. I would look at that very seriously. I think its a serious problem. At the same time, you start getting into speech; thats a very dangerous problem. That could be the beginning. So its very dangerous. Believe it or not, Im one that really likes free speech. A lot of people dont understand that.
But I am a big believer. And when you start regulating, a lot of bad things can happen. But I would certainly talk to the Democrats if they want to do that. And I think they do want to do that. Yes, sir. Go ahead.
I do. I do. I think that some of it I can use executive power -- on some. Not all. But I got -- I mean, he certainly used it. He used it on DACA. And when he did it, he said something to the effect that "Im not allowed to do this, it will never hold up, but Im doing it anyway." And he did it and they found judges that approved it. We also found judges that didnt approve it, so its obviously going to be determined in the Supreme Court.
And if the Supreme -- if the court rules in favor of what President Obama thinks they should rule -- which is what he said -- then I will probably have a deal with the Democrats in a very short period of time. We were very close to having a deal until we got that very strange ruling.
Which one are you talking about?
We are looking at it very seriously. Absolutely.
And I believe we have the absolute right. But thats another case that will be determined by the Supreme Court of the United States.
Youve been reading the same documents as I have; you know exactly what Im doing. You know exactly what Im doing. So go ahead. Whats your next question?
Yeah. Very sad thing. Very terrible thing.
Ill have a much stronger opinion on that subject over the next week, and Im working very closely with Congress. Were working together. Some very talented people. And were working with Congress, were working with Turkey, and were working with Saudi Arabia. And Im forming a very strong opinion. Go ahead, Jon.
Go ahead, Jon.
No.
No.
Well, I believe that. I believe that. With their current policy, they are using a wrecking ball on our country. I believe that 100 percent. This would be a wrecking ball. But I think theres a compromise somewhere, and I think that could be really good for our country. Okay, how about one more?
No, I dont. No. No. No.
Do I regret it?
Surprised you would ask me that question. I do not. Go ahead, please.
Yeah, I do. I do believe thats a problem.
I believe all hate is a problem, but I do believe that is a problem.
And its a problem we want to solve.
Okay, go ahead.
No, we have given funding for that -- a lot of funding. But I do believe its a problem. And can I tell you what -- its a problem that I dont like even a little bit. Go ahead.
I think my message was very well received. I mean, just look at the results. Midterm elections are disasters for sitting Presidents and administrations. This has been a very successful -- and, look, you can write it any way you want. And if you disagree with me -- this has been incredibly success -- when you look at the races.
How about Ohio? I didnt even mention. I mentioned Florida; I mentioned Georgia. How about the governor of Ohio? A fantastic --
Excuse me. Excuse me. Excuse me. A fantastic man, who was down on the polls. And everybody was talking about this person that was so great. And I went up there, and I did a rally, and they have now a great governor -- youre going to have a great governor in Ohio for, hopefully, a long period of time. But for four years.
And -- Mike DeWine is a fantastic person. And I went up there for two reasons: Because I felt that his opposition was not a good person -- and we know a lot about him -- and I felt that Mike was a fantastic person. And he won. And not only did he win, he won easily. So add that to Florida, and add that to Georgia, and add that to all of the other races that we won -- outside, even, of the Senate races, which were the biggest of all.
Because these were races that -- and Mike Pence can tell you, and some of the folks over here can tell you -- these were races that were going to be unopposed. We were not going to oppose certain of the people running -- certain senators. They said they couldnt be beaten. They said Heidi could not be beaten.
Please, dont do it. This was a year out.
Excuse me. You -- no, but youre telling me about -- youre telling me about popularity. They said many of these people -- when I said 9 out of 11 -- but I said -- when many of these people -- these werent like easy races; they were tough races. And so I think the level of popularity -- the first question I was asked was about, "Well, what have you learned?
What about your own popularity?" I think thats what I learned, is -- I was very well received by this great country, by the people of our great country. And Im very proud of that, because I love the people of this country. These people -- we are the greatest people. I love the people of our country.
And Ill tell you something: When you look at the races that we won in Florida, which we werent expected to win; and Georgia, which we werent expected to win; and Ohio, which we werent expected to win -- and won; I mean, you look at some of them -- the number of votes that we got is incredible. So Im really happy with not only the way it came out, but the response to me as your President.
And as your President, I made our country safe. Ive rebuilt and am in the process of rebuilding our military. And the jobs are here. Every one of them built here. Were going to have the strongest -- very shortly, were going to have the strongest military our country has ever had. Ive done more for the vets than any President has done, certainly in many, many decades, with Choice and with other things, as you know.
With other things. But our vets are doing better than theyve ever done. But if you look at Choice -- Choice alone -- I mean, just take a look at what weve done with Choice. But the people of our country are very happy with the job that Im doing. And you know, one of the things --
One of the things -- one of the things that they want so much is security. They want security, both at the border -- they want it with our military; they want it with law enforcement; they want it with ICE. You know, weve taken out thousands of MS-13 gang members -- thousands out of our -- hard to believe -- thousands -- out of our country.
Women of our country, who are incredible people, they want security; they want safety. They want financial security also. Weve done that. But they want physical security. And weve taken out thousands of people that shouldnt be in this country. But we have to get strong immigration laws so they dont come in. We want laws where they dont come in, where we dont have to take them out, per se. And again, Im very honored to be with all of you.
It was a great day yesterday. It was a great evening. I think we had a tremendous success. And hopefully the tone can get better. Hopefully --
Hopefully the tone can get a lot better. And I really believe it begins with the media. I really -- we used to call it the "press." But I really --
But I really believe it begins with the media. If you would cover -- and there was a very interesting story written in a very good paper recently that talked about the fact that it isnt good what the media is doing, and that I do have the right to fight back because Im treated very unfairly. So I do fight back.
