Donald Trump|Press Conference: Donald Trump Holds Joint Press Conference with Emmanuel Macron of France|August 26, 2019
Thank you very much.
Well, I want to thank you very much. And I think more importantly than anything, I wanted to come up here to say that, because the job that President Macron and your wife, by the way, who is a great lady, Brigitte. I would like to thank Brigitte. She has been spectacular. Spent a tremendous amount of time with Melania and some of the folks who came in, some of the wives that came in. And they had a great tour of the area.
And its a beautiful area. But I want to thank you very much, Mr. President, for the incredible job you did. This is a truly successful G7. There was tremendous unity. It was great unity. Sometimes Id read a little bit of false reporting. And I will tell you, there was -- in fact, we were -- we would have stayed for another hour.
Nobody wanted to leave. We were accomplishing a lot. But I think, more importantly, we were getting along very well -- seven countries. And it really was the G7. And you have been a spectacular leader on this. And I want to thank you and I want to thank the great country of France. Thank you very much.
And with that, I think --
Oh, excuse me. I was --  Go ahead. Lets go.
Okay.
If youd like, we could two each, and then we both leave the room. Would you prefer that? Or would you prefer -- I just dont want to have the President of France standing here while Im answering these absolutely wonderful questions. Okay?  So why dont we start with a question for France?
And Emmanuel is going to have his own press conference after this.
So, that will be fine. Go ahead. To France, John. To France.
No, Im not. But --
Yeah.
Were getting there, John. Weve just answered that. Were getting there.
Yes.
Well see, John.
I do. I think they want to make a deal very badly. I think that was elevated last night, very late in the night. I see an alert -- or, as you would call it, "breaking news." And it was that the Vice Chairman -- were not talking about somebody from China at a low level -- the Vice Chairman of China came out that he wants to see a deal made, he wants it to be made under calm conditions -- using the word "calm." I agree with him on that.
And China has taken a very hard hit over the last number of months. You know, theyve lost 3 million jobs. Itll soon be much more than 3 million jobs. Their chain is breaking. A chain is breaking up like nobody has seen before. And once that happens, its very hard to put it back together. You understand.
I think they very much want to make a deal. And the longer they wait, the harder it is to put it back, if it can be put back at all. So I believe they want to do a deal. The tariffs have hit them very hard in a fairly short period of time. The United States will have collected over $100 billion in tariffs.
And I say it again: The reporters failed to -- the media failed to acknowledge it. But if you look at the goods coming in from China -- were talking about China, not other countries. If you look at the goods, they have a power that others dont have. But that power is only good for so long. Theyve manipulated their currency, theyve devalued their currency, and they put a lot of cash into the system.
And because of that, the prices have not gone up. Or if theyve gone up, its been very little, because they want to keep people working. If the prices go up, theyre not going to be able to keep people working; theyre not going to be able to compete. Its a brilliant market. Its a brilliant, brilliant market, the world market.
A lot of markets are brilliant. And, frankly, I think that China cannot -- I dont know, maybe they can, maybe they cant. I dont think they can do that. And I think theyre very smart. And I think President Xi is a great leader, who happens to be a brilliant man. And he cant lose 3 million jobs in a very short period of time.
And thats going to be magnified many times over. And its going to break down the Chinese system of trade, and he cant do that. So when you say, "Do you think they want to?" Maybe they want to and maybe they dont. But I think they want to make a deal. Im not sure they have a choice. And I dont say that as a threat.
I dont think they have a choice. In the meantime, the United States, which has never collected 10 cents from China, will, in a fairly short period of time, be over $100 billion in tariffs. So I think they want to make a deal very badly. Go ahead.
Iran is a country that is not the same country that it was two and a half years ago when I came into office. Iran was the number one state of terror throughout the world. There were 18 sites of confliction in my first week. When I spoke with the folks at the Pentagon, including lots of generals and lots of other military experts -- 18 sites of confliction, meaning, 18 sites of big problems.
Every one of them was backed by Iran, or, in some cases, actually using Iranian soldiers. But at a minimum, Iranian wealth -- much of it given in the ridiculous deal where they were given $150 billion, plus $1.8 billion in cash. And they used that money for some bad purposes. With that being said, I think that Iran is a country of tremendous potential.
Were not looking for leadership change. Were not looking for that kind of change. This country has been through that many times before. That doesnt work. Were looking for no nuclear weapons, no ballistic missiles, and a longer period of time. Very simple. We can have it done in a very short period of time.
And I really believe that Iran can be a very great nation. Id like to see that happen. But they cant nuclear weapons. Okay? Thank you.
Excuse me?
If the circumstances were correct or right, I would certainly agree to that. But in the meantime, they have to be good players. You understand what that means. And they cant do what they were saying theyre going to do because if they do that, theyre going to be met with really very violent force.
Wed have no choice. So I think theyre going to be good. I really think theyd like to. And, by the way, President Macron told me every step that he was making yesterday. A lot of you said, "Oh, he came in and…" He told me long before he came in what was happening, what was -- I didnt think it was appropriate to meet yesterday.
Too soon, and things have to be worked out first. But President Macron told me exactly what was happening, who was coming, what time they were coming, where they were going to meet. And after the meeting, he told me exactly what happened. And I think he had a very positive meeting. Prime Minister Abe of Japan also a large purchaser of oil from Iran.
He was also very much involved. And, you know, look, he knows everybody there, so he was a very, very positive force. But I have to tell you the President has done an excellent job and were going to see how it all turns out. Maybe it works, maybe it doesnt. I say it all the time about everything: Maybe it works and maybe it doesnt. But Ill tell you what, we made a ridiculous deal.
We gave them $150 billion. We gave them $1.8 billion, and we got nothing. We got nothing. And, by the way, that agreement was so short term that it expires in a very short period of time. With a country, you dont make a deal that short. Countries last for long times, and you dont do short-term deals, especially when youre paying that kind of money.
So I have -- I have good feelings about Iran. I have good feelings that it will work. I know many Iranians living in New York City. I have many friends from Iran. Theyre incredible people. Incredible people. So the last thing Id like to see is a big problem. But we have to do what we have to do. Okay?
Go ahead, please. No. No, no. You first. Go ahead. Oh, no. Go ahead. Yes. Yes.
I have to say, the JCPOA was a bad deal. Should not have been entered into. A lot of things could have happened that would have been much different. Theyre allowed to test ballistic missiles. Youre not allowed to go various sites to check, and some of those sites are the most obvious sites for the creation or the making of nuclear weapons.
And those things have to be changed, and other things have to be changed. And I will tell you, I have very good feelings about it. I think that were going to do something. It may not be immediately, but I think, ultimately, were going to do something. As I said, Iran is a much different country than it was two and a half years ago.
And we can get that back, and Id encourage it. I actually had friends years ago -- many years ago -- they were in the real estate business and they were in Iran, and they were building houses and building housing and building office buildings and apartment houses. And they did very well. They made a lot of money.
And to this day, theyre not exactly the youngest developers anymore, I tell you; they were young when they went over there. They made a lot of money and they loved the people and they loved what was going on. And its a country with tremendous potential. I also say that, by the way, with respect to North Korea.
Kim Jong Un -- who Ive gotten to know extremely well; the First Lady has gotten to know Kim Jong Un, and I think shed agree with me -- he is a man with a country that has tremendous potential. Youre in between China, Russia, and South Korea. People want to get to South Korea. They got to get there somehow.
And if theyre going to do anything other than essentially fly, they want to go through. So, railroads and everything else. So many things want to happen there. I think that North Korea has tremendous economic potential. And I think that Kim Jong Un sees that he would be the leader, and I think he sees the tremendous potential that its got.
With respect to Iran, same thing. Iran has incredible people and incredible country, potentially. Location, thats a little rough neighborhood, but eventually its going to be a beautiful neighborhood. I think that its going to be -- I think its going to work out. And I really believe that those countries that went into the original deal -- that more and more are agreeing with what I did -- but I think those countries are going to be saying "thank you" someday.
I hope theyre going to be saying it, including France, including the President, because I think we did the right thing. I know we did the right thing. If for no other reason, its just too short. Its almost expiring, if you think about it. And somebody said, "Well youll go and make an extension." No. No. Theyre great negotiators.
Look at what they did to get the deal. Look at what they did to John Kerry and to President Obama. Look what happened where theyre bringing plane loads of cash. Plane loads. Big planes -- 757s. Boeing 757s coming in, loaded up with cash. What kind of a deal is that? So I think a lot of good things are going to happen.
And I just want to say this, because Ive spoken a lot with the President this last two and a half days: Weve never had a better relationship. We had a lunch that lasted for quite a while that many of you got to see. It was the two of us. No staff. No anything. He wasnt trying to impress his people.
I wasnt trying to impress his people. We were just trying to impress each other. And Ill tell you what: It was the best period of time weve ever had, and we accomplished a lot. I dont mean just, "Gee whiz, wasnt that nice?" Hes a very capable man. Hes doing a great job for France.
He did an incredible job for the G7. And I just want to thank you. And you go ahead to your news conference. And very special. This was a very special, very unified two and a half days, and I want to thank you for it. Thank you.
I can confirm that the First Lady loved your French wine, okay?  All right? She loved your French wine. So, thank you very much. Thats fine.
Thank you. Good job.  Shes worse than you are. I cant believe it. Jonathon.
Thank you. Please sit down.
Thank you very much.
Only if its a fair deal and a good deal for the United States. Otherwise, I will not make a deal. We have billions and billions coming in. And I think were going to get there. I do. I believe it more strongly now than I would have believed it a while ago. Were going to get there. And were going to have a really -- were going to have a fair deal.
But remember this: When you say "fair," China has been taking, out of this country, five hundred-plus billion dollars a year for many, many years. Many, many years. It was time to stop. As a private person, I used to talk about it. Its one of the reasons Im President. And were in a great position.
Our country is doing well. Our unemployment numbers are the lowest theyve been in over 50 years. Our unemployment numbers for African American -- African American, Asian, for Hispanic are the best theyve ever been. Historic numbers. Were in a very strong position. Our consumers are strong. Walmart just announced numbers that were, I mean, mindboggling numbers.
Its a great poll right there, and its the ultimate poll, how the retailer is doing and how are certain -- certain companies doing. So were doing very well. And I think that -- I think were going to make a deal with China. And I think well probably, eventually, were going to make a deal with Iran too.
Its not a question of behavior. I think they want to make a deal, and I think they should make a deal. And I think if they dont make a deal, its going to be very bad for China. And I very much appreciate the fact that they came out last night -- very late last night -- and they said, you know, they want to make a deal.
They want it to be under calm circumstances. It was a little different kind of a statement. I thought it was a beautiful statement. I thought it indicated a lot. Go ahead.
Here we go.
One question. Go ahead.
No, no, no.
One question.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, Ill tell you what: Ive spent -- and I think I will, in a combination of loss and opportunity, probably itll cost me anywhere from $3- to $5 billion to be President. And the only thing I care about is this country. Couldnt care less. Otherwise, I wouldnt have done it. People have asked me, "What do you think it costs?" And between opportunity, not doing -- I used to get a lot of money to make speeches.
Now I give speeches all the time. You know what I get? Zippo. And thats good. And I did a lot of great jobs and great deals that I dont do anymore. And I dont want to do them because the deals Im making are great deals for the country. And thats, to me, much more important. Doral happens to be within Miami.
Its a city. Its a wonderful place. Its a very, very successful area of Florida. Its, very importantly, only five minutes from the airport; the airport is right next door. Its a big international airport, one of the biggest in the world. Everybody thats coming -- all of these people with all of their big entourages come.
Its set up so -- and, by the way, my people looked at 12 sites. All good, but some were two hours from an airport. Some were four hours from -- I mean, they were so far away. Some didnt allow this, or they didnt allow that. With Doral, we have a series of magnificent buildings; we call them bungalows.
They each hold from 50 to 70 very luxurious rooms with magnificent views. We have incredible conference rooms, incredible restaurants. Its like -- its like such a natural -- we wouldnt even have to do the work that they did here. And theyve done a beautiful job. Theyve really done a beautiful job. And what we have also is Miami.
And we have many hundreds of acres, so that in terms of parking, in terms of all of the things that you need, the ballrooms are among the biggest in Florida and the best. Its brand new. And they want -- my people wanted it. From my standpoint, Im not going to make any money. In my opinion, Im not going to make any money.
I dont want to make money. I dont care about making money. If I wanted to make money, I wouldnt worry about $3 billion to $5 billion. Because thats what -- I mean, at some point, Im going to detail that and will show. But I think its just a great place to be. I think having it in Miami is fantastic.
Really fantastic. Having it at that particular place, because of the way its set up, each country can have their own villa, or their own bungalow. And the bungalows, when I say, they have a lot of units in them. So I think it just works out well. And when my people came back, they took tours, they went to different places.
I wont mention places, but youll have a list because theyre going to give a presentation on it fairly soon. They went to places all over the country. And they came back and they said, "This is where wed like it to be." Now, we had military people doing it. We had Secret Service people doing it. We had people that really understand what its about.
Its not about me, its about getting the right location. I think its very important. Jonathan?
No. Not at all. Go ahead, Jonathan.
It does.
Well, it does. I dont know the gentleman. I think that -- I think I know him a little bit just by watching over the last number of years whats happened. Ill tell you one thing: Hes a great negotiator. But he -- I think hes going to want to meet. I think Iran wants to get this situation straightened out.
Now, is that based on fact or based on gut? Thats based on gut. But they want to get their situation straightened out, Jonathan. And theyre really hurting badly. Their inflation, as you know, because I saw you reporting on it, their inflation is through the roof. Their economy has tanked entirely. The sanctions are absolutely hurting them horribly.
I dont want to see that. I dont want to see that. Theyre great people. I dont want to see that. But we cant let them have a nuclear weapon. Cant let it happen. So I think that theres a really good chance that we would meet. Jeff, please.
No.
No. What hes talking, in terms of compensation, is they are out of money. And they meet -- may need a short-term letter of credit or loan. No, were not paying. We dont pay. But they may need some money to get them over a very rough patch. And if they do need money, certainly -- and would be secured by oil, which means -- it means great security.
And they have a lot of oil. But its secured bail. So were really talking about a letter of credit-type facility.
It would be from numerous countries. Numerous countries. And it comes back. It would be -- it would expire. It would be paid back immediately and very quickly. Yes. Go ahead. Please. Go ahead. Yes.
Good.
Good. Just left your Prime Minister, Abe. Good man. Great man.
And for Japan, I would say.
Not at this moment, no. Not at this moment. Well, its one of the reasons we made the deal. But no, not at this moment. Its something I could do at a later date if I wanted to, but were not looking at that. We just want to be treated fairly. You know, Japan has had a tremendous trade surplus with the United States for many, many years -- long before I came here.
And Ill tell you something: Were transforming our country. Were taking these horrible, one-sided, foolish, very dumb, stupid -- if youd like to use that word, because its so descriptive. Were taking these trade deals that are so bad, and we were making good, solid deals out of them. And thats transforming our country.
Thats -- that will be transformative and very exciting, I think, for our country. Very, very exciting. Please, go ahead. Go ahead.
Well, I didnt actually say you, I said the woman behind you. So, why dont we do her first? Youve been asking a lot of questions all day long.
Dont say I dont give you access, right?  Go ahead.
Yes.
I dont care politically. I really dont. A lot of people dont understand this. I ran one election, and I won. It happened to be for President. I dont care politically. Im going to run another election. I think Im winning based on polls that we see. Whether I win or not, I have to do the right thing.
So I dont do things for political reasons. Is it good? Probably not. Maybe it is. I mean, a lot of people are smart. A lot of people say having Russia -- which is a power -- having them inside the room is better than having them outside the room. By the way, there were numerous people during the G7 that felt that way.
And we didnt take a vote or anything, but we did discuss it. My inclination is to say, "Yes, they should be in." They were -- really, it was a President Obama -- Im not blaming him, but a lot of bad things happened with President Putin and President Obama. One of the things that happened was, as you know, what happened in -- with a very big area -- a very, very big and important area in the Middle East, where the red line was drawn and then President Obama decided that he was not going to do anything about it. You cant draw red lines in the sand.
You just cant do it. And the other was in Ukraine having to do with a certain section of Ukraine that you know very well, where it was sort of taken away from President Obama. Not taken away from President Trump; taken away from President Obama. President Obama was not happy that this happened because it was embarrassing to him.
Right? It was very embarrassing to him. And he wanted Russia to be out of the -- what was called the "G8." And that was his determination. He was outsmarted by Putin. He was outsmarted. President Putin outsmarted President Obama.
Wait a minute. And I can understand how President Obama would feel. He wasnt happy. And theyre not in for that reason. Now, Im only thinking about the world and Im thinking about this country in terms of the G7 -- whether its G7, G8. I think it would be better to have Russia inside the tent than outside the tent.
Do we live either way? Yes, we live either way. Is it politically popular for me to say that? Possibly not. I think a lot of people would agree with me, frankly, but possibly not. I do nothing for politics. I know a lot of you arent going to -- youre going to smile at that. I do nothing for politics.
I do whats right, and people like what I do. And -- but I just do whats right. If I wanted to go strictly by politics, Id probably poll that and possibly Id say, "Oh, gee, I dont want -- I dont want Russia in." But I really think its good for the security of the world. Its good for the economics of the world.
Remember, theyre building a big pipeline in Europe, going right up to Germany. And I said to Angela -- who I have a great relationship -- but I said, "You know, you pay Russia billions of dollars and then we defend you from Russia." And I say, "How does that work?"
Well, he did.
Well, it was annexed during President -- I know you like President Obama, but it was annexed during President Obamas term. If it was annexed during my term, Id say, "Sorry, folks, I made a mistake." Or, "Sorry, folks." President Obama was helping Ukraine. Crimea was annexed during his term.
Now, its a very big area, a very important area. Russia has its submarine -- thats where they do their submarine work, and thats where they dock large and powerful submarines. But not as powerful as ours and not as large as ours. But they have their submarines. And President Obama was, pure and simply, outsmarted.
They took Crimea during his term. That was not a good thing. It could have been stopped. It could have been stopped with the right -- whatever. It could have been stopped. But President Obama was unable to stop it, and its too bad. Go ahead.
Well, I dont know that hed accept. And those are tough circumstances. He was a part of G8, and all of a sudden, hes not out -- or hes not in. So I think, John, actually, thats a pretty tough thing for him. You know, hes a proud person. Would I invite him? I would certainly invite him. Whether or not he could come -- psychologically, I think thats a tough thing for him to do. You have a G8, now its a G7, and you invite the person that was thrown out, really by President Obama and really because he got outsmarted.
President Obama, pure and simple. And dont forget: It was not just Crimea; it was the red line in the sand. And Obama said, "Never violate the red line in the sand." And then they went ahead and they killed many children with gas. It was terrible. And he did nothing about it. I did, but I was there years later.
I did something about it, but I was there late. Go ahead.
Well, weve had many calls. Secretary Mnuchin is here, and youve had many calls over the last 24 hours but certainly over the last 48 hours. Weve had many calls, not just one. This isnt one. And these are high-level calls. They want to make a deal. And, by the way, I think a deal is going to be made.
But they want to make a deal.
The Chinese are not saying that.
Excuse me, let me explain something. The Vice Chairman of China -- do you get higher than that, other than President Xi? The Vice President -- the Vice Chairman -- its like the Vice President. The Vice Chairman made the statement that he wants to make a deal, that he wants to see a calm atmosphere. He wants it all to happen.
That says it there. I dont have to talk about -- you know, you folks were reporting before, "Well, we cant find any phone call." He released a statement. I didnt release it. He released a statement.
Numerous calls.
And not only with Steve; there were calls with other people too. Just so you understand: China wants to make a deal. Now, whether or not we make a deal -- its got to be a great deal for us. You know -- and I told this to President Xi, who I really respect. I really do. I have great respect and I like him too.
And hes a tough guy, but I have a lot of feeling for President Xi. Hes very outstanding in so many ways. But I told him very strongly -- I said, "Look, youre starting up here and youre making $500 billion a year and stealing our intellectual property. Were down on the floor -- lower than the floor.
You cant make a 50/50 deal. This has to be a deal thats better for us. And if its not better, lets not do business together." I dont want to do business. Forget about tariffs for a second. Were taking in tremendous amounts of money. Forget that. I dont want to do business. Now, when I raise and he raises, I raise and he raises, we can never catch up. We have to balance our trading relationship at least to an extent.
And they were unwilling to do that, and well never have a deal if that happens. But its going to happen because they have to have a deal. And as far as phone calls are concerned, Secretary of the Treasury and other people have been receiving many calls -- not receiving -- back and forth, many calls.
China wants to make a deal. And if we can, if we will make a deal. Well see. Go ahead.
Yeah.
Youre talking about global economic instability?
I dont consider it instability. But thats --
Sorry. Its the way I negotiate.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
Its the way I negotiate. Its done very well for me over the years, and its doing even better for the country. I think --
And I do think -- and I do think that -- look, heres the story: I have people say, "Oh, just make a deal. Make a deal." They dont have the guts and they dont have the wisdom to know that you cant continue to go on where a country is taking 500 billion -- not million -- 500 billion, with a "B" -- out every single year.
Five hundred billion dollars. You just cant do that. Somebody had to do this. This should have been done by President Obama. It should have been done -- and Biden, Sleepy Joe. It should have been done by other people. It should have been done by Bush. It should have been done by Clinton. Double Bush. It should have been done.
Im doing it. Let me tell you something else: North Korea shouldve been done a long time ago. Im doing it. Im doing a lot of things that I shouldnt have to be doing. Please. Go ahead, please.
Yes.
I believe that.
Well, Theresa wasnt able to do the deal. I gave her my ideas as to doing the deal very early on, and you possibly know what they are, but I wouldve done that. She chose to do it her way, and that didnt work out so well. I think shes a very, very good person and a good woman. And I really believe that Boris Johnson will be a great Prime Minister.
You know, we like each other, and we had a great two and a half days. Ive been waiting for him to be Prime Minister for about six years. I told him, "What took you so long?" I think hes going to be a great Prime Minister, especially after spending a lot of intense time with him over the last couple of days.
Hes really a -- hes very smart and hes very strong. And hes very enthusiastic. And you know what else? He loves your country. He really loves your country. That came out, maybe, more than anything else. Yeah, please.
No. No. No. I love the UK. I own great property in the UK. I love the UK. I have no idea how my property is doing because I dont care. But I own Turnberry, and I own in Aberdeen, and I own in Ireland, as you know --Doonbeg -- and great stuff. And Ill be honest with you: I think -- I think hes going to just do a great job as Prime Minister.
You know, it takes a lot. Its so many different elements to being a great Prime Minister. And you needed him. I just think his time is right. This is the right time for Boris. This is the right time for Boris. Yeah, please. Go ahead. Go ahead. Right here. Say who youre with, please, sir.
Right.
I think were going to have just -- look, France is a great nation. Its being run. A lot of things are happening. You know, its not easy what hes doing. Hes changing certain ways. Its a very hard thing to do. I wont get into it. Im going to let him sell his ideas. But a lot of people dont disagree with his ideas.
But its a very hard thing to do if youre a great citizen of France. You love your country, but you want to do the way youve been doing it for a long time. But maybe thats not working. And maybe they have to do what he has to do. I think hes going to do a fantastic job. But its very tough for him.
I know how tough it is for him. Hes been having a hard time. And nobody would have any easy time. But I do believe he is doing the right thing. Boris is different. Its a different kind of a deal. Boris has to try and do something with Brexit. Its very tough. I deal with the EU. The EU is -- its a very, very strong group of people.
They have their ideas, and theyre not easy to deal with, I will tell you. Weve very close to making a deal, by the way, with the EU. I have to say this. We made a great deal with Japan. And were very close to maybe making a deal with the EU. Because they dont want tariffs; its very simple. They dont want to tax cars.
Mercedes Benz, BMW -- they dont need a 20 percent or a 25 percent tax. But were very close. I think were going to make a deal with the EU without having to go that route. I may have to go that route, but maybe not. Were going to have a deal -- a really fair deal. But the EU is another one. Weve been losing $180 billion a year for many years.
Thats a lot of money. How much can you take out of the piggy bank, right?
Both. I dont want to say which. Look, I think that -- I think that the -- I think we have been with, I guess you would start off by saying, "England." Right? You know, I ask Boris, "Wheres England? Whats happening with England?" They dont use it too much anymore. We talked about it. It was very interesting.
But the United Kingdom is a great, incredible place. Its an incredible nation. And its, you know, been one of our tremendous allies. And another one happens to be Australia. He was here also -- Scott. He is fantastic. In fact, were honoring him and Australia at the White House in a very short period of time.
But I think that -- excuse me?
At some point, I will. Yeah.
At some point, I will. Also, Germany. Angela asked me to visit Germany. Were going to be doing that too. So I just think theyre very different. And theyre going to be going at it for a little while. But ultimately, probably, it works out. They may have to get out. They may not make a deal. The European Union is very tough to make deals with.
Very, very tough. Just ask Theresa May. Go ahead.
They understand that.
Well, we actually had a very good meeting. I had it out with one or two people where we disagreed in terms of concept. But we actually had a pretty good meeting last year. I would say that this was a big step above, in terms of unity, in terms of agreement. And we have really great agreement on a lot of very important subjects.
But last year was good also. I mean, last year was good also. I think last year mightve been a little bit underrated, you know. Go ahead. Please.
Oh, were going to do something hopefully special. Were going to build on what we have now. Weve built on something really good. And were going to be going in with some great unity. We really did. If there was any word for this particular meeting of seven very important countries it was "unity." I think, most important of all, we got along great.
We got along great. Go ahead.
No, I didnt say it. He did.
Yeah.
Yes.
That was an easy answer.
Absolutely. Great respect for China. Great respect for the leadership of China. Absolutely.
I havent said that, but I think that having President Putin in what was the G8 -- he was a member of the G8, and I heard he was a good member of the G8. Having him in, I think, is more of an advantage. I think its a positive for the world. I think its a positive for Russia. I think its a big positive for Russia.
And its something the group is discussing. They are discussing it.
People feel very much like me. Many people.
Well, you know, well see. I know one thing: If they were invited back I think theyd be there. If they werent, thats okay too. I just think theyd be better inside than outside. I mean, as I said before, I really do; I think theyd be an asset. I think it would be a good thing. You know, some of the things -- we were going in the room, and yesterday, in particular, we were discussing four or five matters.
And Russia was literally involved in all of those four or five matters. And a few of the people looked up and said, you know, "Why arent they here talking to us about it?" And we go, "What are we going to do now? Go home? Take it easy for a day?" Although, Im not doing that. I dont take it easy. But what are we going to do? Were going to go home and start calling them at the end of the week and say, "Hey, how about this?" They couldve been in the room.
We had numerous things that we were discussing. Right? Numerous. We had a lot of things that we were discussing, and it wouldve been very easy if Russia was in the room. If he was in the room, we couldve solved those things. Now theyre just in limbo. But I have to say, with all of that, very little in limbo.
But somebody will speak to him about some things, and, frankly, theyre not very complicated. But it would be easier if they were in the room. Okay?
Josh, go ahead. Josh.
I feel that the United States has tremendous wealth. The wealth is under its feet. Ive made that wealth come alive. We will soon be one of the -- we will soon be exporting. In fact, were actually doing it now -- exporting. But we are now the number one energy producer in the world. And soon, it will be by far, with a couple of pipelines that have not been able to get approved for many, many years.
Itll have a huge impact. I was able to get ANWR in Alaska. It could be the largest site in the world for oil and gas. I was able to get ANWR approved. Ronald Reagan wasnt able to do it. Nobody was able to do it. Theyve been trying to do it since before Ronald Reagan. I got it approved. Were the number one energy producer in the world.
Soon it will be, by far, the number one. Its tremendous wealth. And LNG is being sought after all over Europe and all over the world, and we have more of it than anybody else. And Im not going to lose that wealth. Im not going lose it on dreams, on windmills -- which, frankly, arent working too well.
Im not going to lose it. So, Josh, in a nutshell, I want the cleanest water on Earth. I want the cleanest air on Earth. And thats what were doing. And Im an environmentalist. A lot of people dont understand that. I have done more environmental impact statements, probably, than anybody thats -- I guess I can say definitely, because I have done many, many, many of them.
More than anybody thats ever been President or Vice President or anything even close to President. And I think I know more about the environment than most people. I want clean air. I want clean water. I want a wealthy country. I want a spectacular country with jobs, with pensions, with so many things.
And thats what were getting. So I want to be very careful. At the same time --
At the same time -- at the same time -- you werent called. At the same time, its very important to me -- very important to me -- we have to maintain this incredible -- this incredible place that weve all built. Weve become a much richer country. And thats a good thing, not a bad thing -- because that great wealth allows us to take care of people.
