Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump at CPAC|Oxon Hill, MD
Thank you, everybody. So great to be with you. Thank you.  Great to be back at CPAC. Its a place I have really... I love this place.  Love you people. So thank you — thank you very much.
First of all, I want to thank Matt Schlapp and his very, very incredible wife, and boss, Mercedes, who have been fantastic friends and supporters and so great. When I watch them on television defending me, nobody has a chance.
So I want to thank Matt and Mercedes.  And when Matt called and asked I said, "Absolutely Ill be there with you." I mean, the real reason I said it, I didnt want him to go against me cause that...  ... that one you cant beat.
So I said absolutely. And it really is an honor to be here. I wouldnt miss a chance to talk to my friends. These are my friends.  And well see you again next year and the year after that and Ill be doing this...  ... Ill be doing this with CPAC whenever I can and Ill make sure that were here a lot. You know if you remember my first major speech — sit down everybody. Cmon.
You know the dishonest media theyll say, "He didnt get a standing ovation." You know why?  No — you know why? Because everybody stood and nobody sat. So they will say, "He never got a standing ovation," right?
They are the worst.  So — sit down.  "Donald Trump did not get a standing ovation."  They leave out the part, "They never sat down." They leave that out.
So I just want to thank — but you know my first major speak was at CPAC and — probably five or six years ago. First major political speech. And you were there. And it was — I loved it. I loved the people. I loved the commotion.
And then they did these polls were I went through the roof and I wasnt even running, right?  But it gave me an idea. And I got a little bit concerned when I saw what was happening in the country. And I said, "Lets go to it."
So, it was very exciting. I walked the stage on CPAC. Ill never forget it, really. I had very little notes and even less preparation. So when you have practically no notes and no preparation and then you leave and everybody was thrilled, I said, "I think I like this business."
Read More: President Trump Just Boasted About Winning Polls at CPAC. He Lost 6 Times  I wouldve come last year but I was worried that I would be, at that time, too controversial. We wanted border security. We wanted very, very strong military. We wanted all of the things that were going to get...
... and people consider that controversial but you didnt consider it controversial.  So, Ive been with CPAC for a long time. All of these years weve been together. And now you finally have a president, finally. Took you a long time.
Took you a long time.  And its patriots like you that made it happen, believe me. Believe me. You did it because you love your country, because you want a better future for your children and because you want to make America great again.
The media didnt think we would win. The... ... pundits — youre right. They had an idea. The pundits didnt think wed win. The consultants that suck up all that money — oh, they suck it up. Theyre so good.
Theyre not good at politics, but theyre really good at sucking up peoples money. Especially my opponents, because I kept them down to a minimum.
But the consultants didnt think we would win. But they all underestimated the power of the people: You. And the people proved them...
... totally wrong. Never — and — and this is so true. And this is whats been happening. Never underestimate the people. Never.  I dont think itll ever happen again.
And I want you all to know that we are fighting the fake news. Its fake, phony, fake.  A few days ago I called the fake news the enemy of the people. And they are. They are the enemy of the people.
Because they have no sources, they just make em up when there are none. I saw one story recently where they said, "Nine people have confirmed." Therere no nine people. I dont believe there was one or two people. Nine people.
And I said, "Give me a break." Because I know the people, I know who they talk to. There were no nine people. But they say "nine people." And somebody reads it and they think, "Oh, nine people. They have nine sources." They make up sources.
Theyre very dishonest people. In fact, in covering my comments, the dishonest media did not explain that I called the fake news the enemy of the people. The fake news. They dropped off the word "fake." And all of a sudden the story became the media is the enemy.
They take the word "fake" out. And now Im saying, "Oh no, this is no good." But thats the way they are. So Im not against the media, Im not against the press. I dont mind bad stories if I deserve them.
And I tell ya, I love good stories, but we dont go...  I dont get too many of them. But I am only against the fake news, media or press. Fake, fake. They have to leave that word. Im against the people that make up stories and make up sources.
They shouldnt be allowed to use sources unless they use somebodys name. Let their name be put out there. Let their name be put out.
A source says that Donald Trump is a horrible, horrible human being. Let em say it to my face.  Let there be no more sources. And remember this — and in not — in all cases. I mean, I had a story written yesterday about me in Reuters by a very honorable man. It was a very fair story.
There are some great reporters around. Theyre talented, theyre honest as the day is long. Theyre great. But there are some terrible dishonest people and they do a tremendous disservice to our country and to our people. A tremendous disservice. They are very dishonest people.
And they shouldnt use sources. They should put the name of the person. You will see stories dry up like youve never seen before. So you have no idea how bad it is, because if you are not part of the story — and I put myself in your position sometimes. Because many of you, youre not part of the story. And if youre not part of the story, you know, then you, sort of, know — if you are part of the story, you know what theyre saying is true or not.
So when they make it up — and they make up something else, and you saw that before the election: polls, polls. The polls. They come out with these polls and everybody was so surprised.
Actually, a couple polls got it right. I must say Los Angeles Times did a great job, shocking because, you know, they did a great job.
And we had a couple of others that were right, but generally speaking, I mean, can tell you the network, somebody said a poll came out. And I say, what network is it? And theyll say, a certain — lets not even mention names, right? Shall we?
Well, you have a lot of them. Look, the Clinton News Network is one.  Totally. Take a look. Honestly. Take a look, honestly. Take a look at polls over the last two years. Now youd think they would fire the pollster, right? After years and years of getting battered, but I — who knows, maybe they are just bad at polling or maybe theyre not legit, but its one or the other, look at how inaccurate — look at CBS, look at ABC, also, look at NBC, take a look at some of these polls. Theyre so bad, so inaccurate and what that does is it creates a false narrative.
It creates like this narrative that is just like were not going to win, people say, I love Trump, but you know, Im not feeling great today, he cant win, so I wont go and vote. I wont go and vote. It creates a whole false deal. And we have to fight it, folks, we have to fight it. Theyre very smart, theyre very cunning and theyre very dishonest.
So just to conclude, I mean, its a very sensitive topic and they get upset when we expose their false stories. They say that we cant criticize their dishonest coverage because of the First Amendment, you know, they always bring up the First Amendment.
And I love the First Amendment; nobody loves it better than me. Nobody.  I mean, who use its more than I do? But the First Amendment gives all of us — it gives it to me, it gives it to you, it gives it to all Americans, the right to speak our minds freely. It gives you the right and me the right to criticize fake news and criticize it strongly.
And many of these groups are part the large media corporations that have their own agenda and its not your agenda and its not the countrys agenda, its their own agenda. They have a professional obligation as members of the press to report honestly. But as you saw throughout the entire campaign, and even now, the fake news doesnt tell the truth. Doesnt tell the truth.
So just in finishing, I say it doesnt represent the people, it doesnt tell the never will represent the people, and were going to do something about it because we have to go out and have to speak our minds and we have to be honest. Our victory was a win like nobody has ever seen before.
Im here fighting for you and I will continue to fight for you. The victory and the win were something that really was dedicated to a country and people that believe in freedom, security and the rule of law. Our victory...
... was a victory and the win for conservative values.  And our victory was a win for everyone who believes its time to stand up for America, to stand up for the American worker and to stand up for the American flag.
Yeah, there we should stand up. Come on. There we should stand up. OK. And by the way, we love our flag. By the way, you folks are in here — this place is packed, there are lines that go back six blocks and I tell you that because you wont read about it, OK.
But there are lines that go back six blocks, there is such love in this country for everything we stand for, you saw that on Election Day.
And youre going to see it more and more.  So were all part of this very historic movement, a movement the likes of which, actually, the world has never seen before. Theres never been anything like this. Theres been some movements, but theres never been anything like this.
Theres been some movements that petered out like Bernie, petered out.  But it was a little rigged against him, you know, super delegate, super delegate. She had so many delegates before the thing even started, I actually said to my people, how does that happen? Not that Im a fan of Bernie, but a lot of Bernie people voted for Trump, you know why? Because hes right on one issue; trade. He was right about trade. Our country is being absolutely devastated with bad trade deals. So he was right about that, but we got a lot of Bernie support. So actually, I like Bernie. OK? I like Bernie.
But Im here today to tell you what this movement means for the future of the Republican party and for the future of America. First we need to define what this great, great unprecedented movement is and what it actually represents. The core conviction of our movement is that we are a nation that put and will put its own citizens first.
For too long, weve traded away our jobs to other countries. So terrible. Weve defended other nations borders while leaving ours wide open, anybody can come in. Were going to build a wall, dont worry about it. Were building the wall. Were building the wall. In fact, its going to start soon. Way ahead of schedule, way ahead of schedule.  Way, way, way ahead of schedule. Its going to start very soon. General Kelly by the way has done a fantastic job. Fantastic job hes done.
And remember, we are getting the bad ones out. These are bad dudes. Were getting the bad ones out, OK? Were getting the bad — if you watch these people, its like gee, thats so sad. Were getting bad people out of this country, people that shouldnt be whether its drugs or murder or other things. Were getting bad ones out, those are the ones that go first and I said it from day one. Basically all Ive done is keep my promise.
Weve spent trillions of dollars overseas, while allowing our own infrastructure to fall into total disrepair and decay. In the Middle East, weve spent as of four weeks ago, $6 trillion. Think of it.
And by the way, the Middle East is in — I mean, its not even close, its in much worse shape than it was 15 years ago. If our presidents would have gone to the beach for 15 years, we would be in much better shape than we are right now, that I can tell you.
Be a hell of a lot better. We could have rebuilt our country three times with that money. This is the situation that I inherited. I inherited a mess, believe me. We also inherited a failed health care law that threatens our medical system with absolute and total catastrophe. Now, Ive been watching and nobody says it, but Obamacare doesnt work, folks. I mean, I could say, I could talk, it doesnt work.
And now people are starting to develop a little warm heart, but the people that youre watching, theyre not you. Theyre largely — many of them are the side that lost, you know they lost the election. Its like, how many elections do we have to have? They lost the election. But I always say, Obamacare doesnt work. And these same people two years ago and a year ago were complaining about Obamacare.
And the bottom line, were changing it. Were going to make it much better, were going to make it less expensive. Were going to make it much better.
Obamacare covers very few people — and remember, deduct from the number all of the people that had great health care that they loved that was taken away from them — it was taken away from them.
Millions of people were very happy with their health care, they had their doctor, they had their plan. Remember the lie, 28 times. You could keep your doctor, you could keep your plan. Over and over and over again, you heard it. So were going to repeal and replace Obamacare.
And I tell Paul Ryan and all of the folks that were working with very hard, Dr. Tom Price, very talented guy.  But I tell them from a purely political standpoint, the single best thing we can do is nothing. Let it implode completely, its already imploding. You see the carriers are all leaving. I mean, its a disaster. But two years, dont do anything. The Democrats will come to us and beg for help, theyll beg and its their problem. But its not the right thing to do for the American people, its not the right thing to do.
We inherited a national debt that has doubled in eight years, think of it, $20 trillion, its doubled. We inherited a foreign policy marked by one disaster after another. We dont win anymore. When was the last time we won? Did we win a war? Did we win anything? Do we win anything? Were going to win. Were going on win big, folks. Were going to start winning again, believe me. Were gonna win.
But were taking a firm, bold and decisive measure, we have to, to turn things around. The era of empty talk is over, its over.  Now is the time for action. So let me tell you about the actions that were taking right now to deliver on our promise to the American people and on my promise to make America great again. Weve taken swift and strong action to secure the southern border of the United States and to begin the construction of a great, great border wall.
By doing this, and with the help of our great border police, with the help of ICE, with the help of General Kelly and all of the people that are so passionate about this — our border patrol, Ill tell you what they do, they came and endorsed me, ICE came and endorsed me. They never endorsed a presidential candidate before, they might not even be allowed to.
But they were disgusted with what they saw and well stop it. Well stop the drugs from pouring into our nation and poisoning our youth. Pouring in. Pouring in.
We get the drugs, they get the money. We get the problems, they get the cash. No good. No good. Going to stop. By stopping the flow of illegal immigration, we will save countless tax dollars, and thats so important because the tax — the dollars were losing are beyond anything that you can imagine. And the tax dollars that can be used to rebuild struggling American communities, including our inner cities.
We are also going to save countless American lives. As we speak today, immigration offers are finding the gang members, the drug dealers and the criminal aliens and throwing them the hell out of our country.
And we will not let them back in. Theyre not coming back in, folks. They do, theyre going to have bigger problems than they ever dreamt of.
Im also working with the Department of Justice to being reducing violent crime. I mean, can you believe whats happening in Chicago as an example? Two days ago, seven people were shot and I believe killed. Seven people, seven people, Chicago, a great American city, seven people shot and killed. We will support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
Thank you, and thank them. Ive also followed through on my campaigning promise and withdrawn America from the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
So that we can protect our economic freedom. And were going to make trade deals, but were going to do one on one, one on one, and if they misbehave, we terminate the deal and then theyll come back and well make a better deal. None of these big quagmire deals that are a disaster.
Just take a look — by the way, take a look at NAFTA, one of the worst deals ever made by any country, having to do with economic development. Its economy un-development, as far as our country is concerned.
Were preparing to repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare. Were going to save Americans from this crisis, and give them the access to the quality health care they need and deserve. We have authorized the construction, one day, of the Keystone and Dakota Access Pipelines.
And issued a new rule — this took place while I was getting ready to sign. I said who makes the pipes for the pipeline? Well sir, it comes from all over the world, isnt that wonderful? I said nope, comes from the United States, or were not building it.
American steel.  If they want a pipeline in the United States, theyre going to use pipe thats made in the United States. Do we agree?
But can you imagine — I told this story the other day — can you imagine the gentleman — never met him, dont even know the name of this company. I actually sort of know it, but I want to get it exactly correct. Big, big powerful company, they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on the pipeline, same thing with the Dakota, different vice. They got their approvals, everything, in the case of Dakota, then all of a sudden they couldnt connect it because they had people protesting that never showed up before.
But with the Keystone — so they spent hundreds of millions of dollars with bloodsucker consultants — you know, sucking the blood out of the company, dont worry, Ive used them all my life, OK? Dont worry, were going to get it approved, Im connected, Im a lobbyist, dont worry. Bottom line, Obama didnt sign it, right? Could be 42,000 jobs, somewhere around there — a lot of jobs. Didnt sign it.
But can you imagine, he gave up. A year ago, it was dead, now hes doing anything, calling his wife, hello darling, Im a little bored, you know that pipeline that has killed us, that has killed our company. Knock, knock. Mr. so and so, the Keystone Pipeline sir, out of nowhere has just been approved.
Now, can you imagine the expression? And you know the sad part? Those same blood sucking consultants that hit them for all the money and failed, theyre now going to go back to him and say, did we do a great job; we want more money, right? Because thats the way the system works, a little bit off, but thats the way the system works.
Were preparing bold action to lift the restrictions on American energy, including shale oil, natural gas and beautiful clean coal and were going to put our miners back to work.
Miners are going back to work, folks. Sorry to tell you that, but theyre going back to work. We have begun a historic program to reduce the regulations that are crushing our economy, crushing.
And not only our economy, crushing our jobs because companies cant hire. Were going to put the regulation industry out of work and out of business.
And by the way, I want regulation. I want to protect our environment, I want regulations for safety, I want all of the regulations that we need and I want them to be so strong and so tough, but we dont need 75 percent of the repetitive, horrible regulations that hurt companies, hurt jobs, make us non-competitive overseas with other companies from other countries, that we dont need.
But were going to have regulation. Its going to be really strong and really good and were going to protect our environment and were going to protect the safety of our people and our workers, OK?
Another major promise is tax reform. Were going to massively lower taxes on the middle class, reduce taxes on American business and make our tax code more simple and much more fair for everyone, including the people and the business.
In anticipation of these and other changes, jobs are already starting to pour back into our country, you see that. In fact, I think I did more than any other pre-president, they say president- elect. President-elect is meeting with Ford, hes meeting with Chrysler, hes meeting with General Motors. I just wanted to save a little time.
Because Ford and Fiat Chrysler, General Motors, Sprint, Intel, and so many others are now, because of the election result, making major investments in the United States, expanding production and hiring more workers. And theyre going back to Michigan and theyre going back to Ohio and theyre going back to Pennsylvania and theyre going back to North Carolina and to Florida.
Its time for all Americans to get off of welfare and get back to work, youre going to love it, youre going to love it, youre going to love it.
Were also put nothing a massive budget request for our beloved military.  And we will be substantially upgrading all of our military, all of our military, offensive, defensive, everything, bigger and better and stronger than ever before. And hopefully, well never have to use it, but nobodys gonna mess with us, folks, nobody.
It will be one of the greatest military build-ups in American history. No one will dare question as they have been because were very depleted, very, very depleted. Sequester. Sequester. Nobody will dare question our military might again. We believe in peace through strength and thats what we will have.
As part of my pledge to restore safety for the American people, I have also directed the defense community to develop a plan to totally obliterate ISIS.
Working with our allies, we will eradicate this evil from the face of the Earth.  At the same time, we fully understand that national security begins with border security; foreign terrorists will not be able to strike America if they cannot get into our country.
By the way, take a look at whats happening in Europe, folks, take a look at whats happening in Europe. I took a lot of heat on Sweden.
And then a day later, I said has anybody reported whats going on? And it turned out that they didnt — not too many of them did. Take a look at what happened in Sweden. I love Sweden, great country, great people, I love Sweden. But they understand. The people over there understand Im right. Take a look at whats happening in Sweden. Take a look at whats happening in Germany. Take a look at whats happened in France. Take a look at Nice and Paris.
I have a friend, hes a very, very substantial guy. He loves the city of lights, he loves Paris. For years, every year during the summer, he would go to Paris, was automatic with his wife and his family. Hadnt seen him in a while. And I said, Jim, let me ask you a question, hows Paris doing? "Paris? I dont go there anymore, Paris is no longer Paris." That was four years — four or five years hasnt gone there. He wouldnt miss it for anything. Now he doesnt even think in terms of going there.
Take a look at whats happening to our world, folks. And we have to be smart. We have to be smart. We cant let it happen to us.  So let me state this as clearly as I can, we are going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.  We will not be deterred from this course, and in a matter of days, we will be taking brand-new action to protect our people and keep America safe, you will see the action. I will never ever apologize for protecting the safety and security of the American people, I wont do it.
If it means I get bad press, if it means people speak badly of me, its OK, doesnt bother me. The security of our people is number one, is number one.
Our administration is running with great efficiency, even though I still dont have my Cabinet approved, nobody mentions that.  You know, I still have people out there waiting to be approved and everyone knows theyre gonna be approved. Its just a delay, delay, delay, its really sad, its really sad. And these are great people, these are some great people. We still dont have our Cabinet. I assume were setting records for that. Thats the only thing good about it is were setting records. I love setting records.
But I hate having a Cabinet meeting and I see all these empty seats. I said, Democrats, please approve our Cabinet and get smart on health care, too, if you dont mind.
But were taking meetings everyday with top leaders in business, in science and industry. Yesterday, I had 29 of the biggest business leaders in the world in my office; Caterpillar, Tractor, Campbells Soup. We had everybody. We had everybody. I like Campbells Soup.
We had everybody and we came to a lot of very good conclusions and a lot of those folks that are in that room are gonna be building big, big, massive new plants and lots of jobs. And you know what? Theyre gonna be building them in this country, not in some other country.
Were meeting with unions, meeting with law enforcement and were meeting with leaders from all around where the White House doors used to be totally closed. They were closed, folks. You dont realize that, they were closed.
Theyre now wide open and theyre open for people doing business for our country and putting people to work.  And when they come into the White House, were translating these meetings into action. One by one, were checking off the promises we made to the people of the United States. One by one, a lot of promises. And we will not stop until the job is done. We will reduce your taxes, we will cut your regulations, we will support our police, we will defend our flag.
We will rebuild our military. We will take care of our great, great veterans. Were taking care of our veterans.  We will fix our broken and embarrassing trade deals that are no good. None of them. You wonder where did the people come from that negotiated these deals. Where did they come from? Well, they came also from campaign contributions, I must be honest. Theyre not as stupid as you think.
We will cut wasteful spending. We will promote our values. We will rebuild our inner cities. We will bring back our jobs and our dreams. So true. So true.
And by the way, we will protect our Second Amendment.  You know, Wayne and Chris are here from the NRA and they didnt have that on the list. Its lucky I thought about it.
But we will indeed, and theyre great people. And by the way, they love our country. They love our country. The NRA has been a great supporter. They love our country.
The forgotten men and women of America will be forgotten no longer. That is the heart of this new movement and the future of the Republican Party. People came to vote, and these people, the media, they said where are they coming from? Whats going on here? These are hard-working, great, great Americans. These are unbelievable people who have not been treated fairly. Hillary called them deplorable. Theyre not deplorable.
Who would have thought that a word was gonna play so badly?  Thats the problem in politics. One wrong word and its over. She also said irredeemable, but we wont mention that.
The GOP will be, from now on, the party also of the American worker.  You know, we havent been as a group given credit for this, but if you look at how much bigger our party has gotten during this cycle, during the early days when we had 17 people running in the primaries. Millions and millions of people were joining. Now, I wont say it was because of me, but it was. OK?
And we have an amazing, strong, powerful party that truly does want to see America be great again, and it will see it and its gonna see it a lot sooner than you think, believe me, a lot sooner than you think.
We will not answer to donors or lobbyists, or special interests, but we will serve the citizens of the United States of America, believe me.
Global cooperation, dealing with other countries, getting along with other countries is good, its very important. But there is no such thing as a global anthem, a global currency or a global flag. This is the United States of America that Im representing.
Im not representing the globe, Im representing your country.  Theres one allegiance that unites us all, and that is to America. America, its the allegiance to America.
No matter our background or income, or geography, were all citizens of this blessed land. And no matter our color or the blood — the color of the blood we bleed, its the same red blood of great, great patriots. Remember, great patriots.
We all salute with pride, the same American flag, and we all are equal — totally equal in the eyes of almighty God, were equal.  Thank you.
And I want to thank, by the way, the Evangelical community, the Christian community.  Communities of faith, rabbis and priests and pastors, ministers, because the support for me was a record, as you know, not only in terms of numbers of people, but percentage of those numbers that voted for Trump. So I want to thank you folks, that was amazing — an amazing outpour...
... and I will not disappoint you. As long as we have faith in each other and trust in God, then there is no goal at all beyond our reach. There is no dream too large, no task too great, we are Americans and the future belongs to us.
The future belongs to all of you. And America is coming about, and its coming back, and its roaring and you can hear it. Its going to be bigger and better. It is going to be — it is going to be — remember and its roaring. Its going to be bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
