Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Gives Remarks on MS|13 to Law Enforcement
Well, thank you very much. This is certainly being home for me. I spent a lot of time right here. I was in Queens, so Id come here, and this was like the luxury location for me. And I love it. I love the people here. Even coming in from the airport, I sat with Nikki Haley, whos here someplace. Wheres our Nikki?
Ambassador Nikki Haley, who is so incredible.  And shes seen crowds in her life, and she said, boy, those are really big crowds. Crowds of people all lining the streets, all the way over to here. And its really a special place. And so when I heard about this, I said, I want to do that one.
But I really wanted to do it not because of location, but because, as you know, I am the big, big believer and admirer of the people in law enforcement, okay? From day one.  From day one. We love our police. We love our sheriffs. And we love our ICE officers. And they have been working hard.  Thank you. They have been working hard.
Together, were going to restore safety to our streets and peace to our communities, and were going to destroy the vile criminal cartel, MS-13, and many other gangs. But MS-13 is particularly violent.
They dont like shooting people because its too quick, its too fast. I was reading -- one of these animals was caught -- in explaining, they like to knife them and cut them, and let them die slowly because that way its more painful, and they enjoy watching that much more. These are animals.
Were joined today by police and sheriffs from Suffolk, Nassau, Dutchess and Ulster counties; state police from New York and New Jersey -- many of you I know, great friends; Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers; and law enforcement personnel from a number of federal agencies. So were loaded up with great people -- thats what I call it.
And I want to just tell you all together, right now, the reason I came -- this is the most important sentence to me: On behalf of the American people, I want to say, thank you. Thank you very much.  Thank you.
And I dont think you know how much the public respects and admires you. Youre saving American lives every day, and we have your backs -- believe me -- we have your backs 100 percent. Not like the old days. Not like the old days.
You know, when you wanted to take over and you used military equipment -- and they were saying you couldnt do it -- you know what I said? That was my first day: You can do it.  In fact, that stuff is disappearing so fast we have none left.  You guys know -- you really knew how to get that. But thats my honor. And I tell you what -- its being put to good use.
I especially want to thank ICE Director Tom Homan, who has done an incredible job in just a short period of time. Tom, get up here. I know you just --  -- Tom is determined to rid our nation of cartels and criminals who are preying on our citizens. And I can only say to Tom: Keep up the great work. Hes a tough guy. Hes a tough cookie. Somebody said the other day, they saw him on television, and somebody -- they were interviewed after that; they said, he looks very nasty, he looks very mean. I said, thats what Im looking for.  Thats exactly what I was looking for.
And for that, I want to congratulate John Kelly, who has done an incredible job of Secretary of Homeland Security. Incredible.  One of our real stars. Truly, one of our stars. John Kelly is one of our great stars. You know, the border is down 78 percent. Under past administrations, the border didnt go down -- it went up.
But if it went down 1 percent, it was like this was a great thing. Down 78 percent. And, in fact, the southern border of Mexico, we did them a big favor -- believe me. They get very little traffic in there anymore, because they know theyre not going to get through the border to the United States. So that whole group has been incredible, led by General Kelly.
Let me also express our gratitude to the members of the New York Delegation here today: Congressman Chris Collins. Wheres Chris? Oh, Chris, right from the beginning he said, "Trump is going to win. Trump is going to win." So I like him.  I didnt like him that much before; now I love him.  Dan Donovan -- thanks, Dan.  Thank you, Dan. And Lee Zeldin, who I supported right from the beginning, when they said he didnt have a chance of beating a pretty popular incumbent.
And I saw him in a debate. I said, I think this guy is going to win. But he fought a pretty popular guy, and I said, I think hes going to win and went heavy for him, and he won. And he won pretty easily, didnt you? Pretty good. Im proud of you. Great job.
And, of course, a legend, somebody that we all know very well, sort of my neighbor -- because I consider him a neighbor -- but hes really a great and highly respected man in Washington, Congressman Peter King.  Very respected guy. He is a respected man that people like to ask opinions of. I do.
Congressman King and his colleagues know the terrible pain and violence MS-13 has inflicted upon this community -- and this country. And if you remember just a little more than two years ago, when I came down the escalator with Melania, and I made the speech -- people coming into this country. Everyone said, what does he know? Whats he talking about?
And there was bedlam. Remember bedlam? And then about two months later, they said, you know, hes right. So Im honored to have brought it to everybodys attention. But the suffering and the pain that we were going through -- and now you can look at the numbers -- its a whole different world.
And it will get better and better and better because weve been able to start nipping it in the bud. Weve nipped it in the bud -- lets call it start nipping in the bud.
And MS-13, the cartel, has spread gruesome bloodshed throughout the United States. Weve gotten a lot of them out of here. Big, big percentage. But the rest are coming -- theyll be out of here quickly, right? Quickly. Good.
So I asked Tom on the plane -- he was never on Air Force One -- I said, how do you like it? He said, I like it.  But I said, hey, Tom, let me ask you a question -- how tough are these guys, MS-13? He said, theyre nothing compared to my guys. Nothing. And thats what you need. Sometimes thats what you need, right?
For many years, they exploited Americas weak borders and lax immigration enforcement to bring drugs and violence to cities and towns all across America. Theyre there right now because of weak political leadership, weak leadership, weak policing, and in many cases because the police werent allowed to do their job.
Ive met police that are great police that arent allowed to do their job because they have a pathetic mayor or a mayor doesnt know whats going on.
Were you applauding for someone in particular?  Its sad. Its sad. You look at whats happening, its sad. But hopefully -- certainly in the country, those days are over. You may have a little bit longer to wait.
But from now on, were going to enforce our laws, protect our borders, and support our police like our police have never been supported before. Were going to support you like youve never been supported before.
Few communities have suffered worse at the hands of these MS-13 thugs than the people of Long Island. Hard to believe. I grew up on Long Island. I didnt know about this. I didnt know about this. And then all of a sudden, this is like a new phenomenon. Our hearts and our nation grieve for the victims and their families.
Since January 16 -- think of this -- MS-13 gang members have brutally murdered 17 beautiful, young lives in this area on Long Island alone. Think of it. They butcher those little girls. They kidnap, they extort, they rape and they rob. They prey on children. They shouldnt be here. They stomp on their victims. They beat them with clubs. They slash them with machetes, and they stab them with knives. They have transformed peaceful parks and beautiful, quiet neighborhoods into bloodstained killing fields. Theyre animals.
We cannot tolerate as a society the spilling of innocent, young, wonderful, vibrant people -- sons and daughters, even husbands and wives. We cannot accept this violence one day more. Cant do it, and were not going to do it. Because of you, were not going to be able to do it. Youre not going to allow it to happen, and were backing you up 100 percent. Remember that -- 100 percent.
It is the policy of this administration to dismantle, decimate and eradicate MS-13 at every other -- and I have to say, MS-13, thats a name; rough groups -- thats fine. We got a lot of others. And they were all let in here over a relatively short period of time. Not during my period of time, believe me. But were getting them out. Theyre going to jails, and then theyre going back to their country. Or theyre going back to their country, period.
One by one, were liberating our American towns. Can you believe that Im saying that? Im talking about liberating our towns. This is like Id see in a movie: Theyre liberating the town, like in the old Wild West, right? Were liberating our towns. I never thought Id be standing up here talking about liberating the towns on Long Island where I grew up, but thats what youre doing.
And I can tell you, I saw some photos where Toms guys -- rough guys. Theyre rough. I dont want to be -- say it because theyll say thats not politically correct. Youre not allowed to have rough people doing this kind of work. We have to get -- just like they dont want to have rich people at the head of Treasury, okay?  Like, I want a rich guy at the head of Treasury, right? Right?
I want a rich guy at the head of Commerce. Because weve been screwed so badly on trade deals, I want people that made a lot of money now to make a lot of money for our country.
And, by the way, as I was walking up, they just gave me the numbers. Our numbers just came out this morning. GDP is up double from what it was in the first quarter.  2.6 percent. Were doing well. Were doing really well.
And we took off all those restrictions. And some were statutorily stuck with a for a little while, but eventually that statute comes up, and were going to be able to cut a lot more. But weve sort of liberated the world of creating jobs like youre liberating us and the people that live in areas.
But I have to say, one by one, we are indeed freeing up these great American towns and cities that are under siege from gang violence. Look at Los Angeles. Look at whats going on in Los Angeles. Look at Chicago. What is going on? Is anybody here from Chicago? We have to send some of you to Chicago, I think.  Whats going on?
I mean, you see whats happening there? Theres no -- do we agree? Is there something maybe --  -- is there something -- I have to tell you one Chicago story. So Chicago is having this unbelievable violence; people being killed -- four, five, six in a weekend. And Im saying, what is going on?
And when I was running, we had motorcycle brigades take us to the planes and stuff. And one of the guys, really good -- you could see a really respected officer, police officer. He was at the head. He was the boss. And you could see he was the boss. He actually talked like the boss. "Come on, get lined up." Because Id always take pictures with the police because I did that. My guys said, dont do it. Dont do it.
Other candidates didnt do it that I was beating by 40 points, can you believe it? But I did it. Maybe thats why I was winning by 40 points. But other candidates wouldnt do it, but I always took the pictures with the police.
But were in Chicago, and we had massive motorcycle bridges, and you know those people have to volunteer. I dont know if you know that, but from what I understand, they have to volunteer. And I had the biggest brigades. I had brigades sometimes with almost 300 motorcycles. Even I was impressed. Id look ahead and it was nothing but motorcycles because theyd volunteer from all over various states.
But this one guy was impressive. He was a rough cookie and really respected guy. I could see he was respected. And he said, "All right, come on, get over here. Get over here. Hes got to get to work. Get over here." And I said, "So let me tell -- youre from Chicago?" "Yes, sir." I said, "What the hell is going on?"
And he said, "Its a problem; it can be straightened out." I said, "How long would it take you to straighten out this problem?" He said, "If you gave me the authority, a couple of days."  I really mean it. I said, "You really think so?" He said, "A couple of days. We know all the bad ones. We know them all." And he said, the officers -- you guys, you know all the bad ones in your area. You know them by their names. He said, "We know them all. A couple of days."
I said, "You got to be kidding." Now, this is a year and a half ago. I said, "Give me your card." And he gave me a card. And I sent it to the mayor. I said, "You ought to try using this guy."  Guess what happened? Never heard. And last week they had another record. Its horrible.
But were just getting started. We will restore law and order on Long Island. Well bring back justice to the United States. Im very happy to have gotten a great, great Justice of the United States Supreme Court, not only nominated, but approved. And, by the way, your Second Amendment is safe.  Your Second Amendment is safe. I feel very good about that. It wasnt looking so good for the Second Amendment, was it, huh? If Trump doesnt win, your Second Amendment is gone. Your Second Amendment would be gone.
But I have a simple message today for every gang member and criminal alien that are threatening so violently our people: We will find you, we will arrest you, we will jail you, and we will deport you.
And, you know, we had some problems with certain countries. Still do with a couple, but well take care of them -- dont worry about it. Anytime we have a trade deficit, its very easy -- which is almost everywhere. We have trade deficits with almost every country because we had a lot of really bad negotiators making deals with other countries. So its almost everywhere, so that takes care of itself.
But we had certain countries in South America where they wouldnt take the people back. And I said, thats okay, no more trade. All of a sudden they started taking their people back. Its amazing, isnt it? They used to send to the former Secretary of State of the country, "Please call. Would you please work it so that we can take" -- and they used to just tell her, "No, we wont take back."
They take back with us, every single time. Were having very little problem. Are we having any problem right now with that? Huh? You better believe it. Give me the names of the few problems. Well take care of it, Im telling you.  Its unbelievable.
One of the old people -- one of the people that represented the other administration -- I said, why didnt you use that, the power of economics? "Sir, we think one thing has nothing to do with another." I said, oh, really? So well have big deficits and they wont take back these criminals that came from there and should be back there? Well, believe me, to me, everything matters. But theyre all taking them back.
ICE officers recently conducted the largest crackdown on criminal gangs in the history of our country. In just six weeks, ICE and our law enforcement partners arrested nearly 1,400 suspects and seized more than 200 illegal firearms and some beauties, and nearly 600 pounds of narcotics.
The men and women of ICE are turning the tide in the battle against MS-13. But we need more resources from Congress -- and were getting them. Congress is actually opening up and really doing a job. They should have approved healthcare last night, but you cant have everything. Boy, oh, boy. Theyve been working on that one for seven years. Can you believe that? The swamp. But well get it done. Were going to get it done.
You know, I said from the beginning: Let Obamacare implode, and then do it. I turned out to be right. Let Obamacare implode.  Right now, we have less than 6,000 Enforcement and Removal Officers in ICE.
This is not enough to protect a nation of more than 320 million people. Its essential that Congress fund another 10,000 ICE officers -- and were asking for that -- so that we can eliminate MS-13 and root out the criminal cartels from our country.
Now, were getting them out anyway, but wed like to get them out a lot faster. And when you see these towns and when you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon -- you just see them thrown in, rough -- I said, please dont be too nice.
Like when you guys put somebody in the car and youre protecting their head, you know, the way you put their hand over? Like, dont hit their head and theyve just killed somebody -- dont hit their head. I said, you can take the hand away, okay?
Its essential that Congress fund hundreds more federal immigration judges and prosecutors -- and we need them quickly, quickly -- if were going to dismantle these deadly networks. And I have to tell you, you know, the laws are so horrendously stacked against us, because for years and years theyve been made to protect the criminal. Totally made to protect the criminal, not the officers.Donald Trump
Were also working with Chairman Bob Goodlatte on a series of enforcement measures -- and hes a terrific guy -- to keep our country safe from crime and terrorism -- and in particular, radical Islamic terrorism.  A term never uttered by the past administration. Never uttered. Did anybody ever hear that term? I dont think so. But you heard it from me.
That includes cracking down on sanctuary cities that defy federal law, shield visa overstays, and that release dangerous criminals back into the United States communities. Thats whats happening. Theyre releasing them. So many deaths where they release somebody back into the community, and they know its going to end that way. Thats the sad -- they know its going to end that way. Were ending those procedures.  Thank you.
We have to secure -- I spoke to parents, incredible parents. I got to know so many parents of children that were so horribly killed -- burned to death, beaten to death, just the worst kind of death you can ever -- stuffed in barrels. And the person that did it was released, and youd look at the file, and there were letter after letter after letter of people begging not to let this animal back into society; that this would happen, it would happen quickly.
It wasnt even like it would happen over a long period of time. They were saying it would happen quickly. Its total violence. Hes a totally violent person. You cannot let this person out.
They let the person out, and sometimes it would happen like on the first day. And then you have to talk to the parents and hold the parents and hug them. And theyre crying so -- I mean crying. Their lives are destroyed. And nobody thinks about those people. They dont think about those people. Theyre devastated.
But were ending so much of that. Were ending hopefully all of that. The laws are tough. The laws are stacked against us, but were ending that.  So were going to secure our borders against illegal entry, and we will build the wall. That I can tell you.
In fact, last night -- you dont read about this too much, but it was approved -- $1.6 billion for the phase one of the wall, which is not only design but the start of construction over a period of about two years, but the start of construction for a great border wall. And were going to build it. The Wall is a vital, and vital as a tool, for ending the humanitarian disaster brought -- and really brought on by drug smugglers and new words that we havent heard too much of -- human traffickers.
This is a term thats been going on from the beginning of time, and they say its worse now than it ever was. You go back a thousand years where you think of human trafficking, you go back 500 years, 200 years, 100 years. Human trafficking they say -- think of it, but they do -- human trafficking is worse now maybe than its ever been in the history of this world.
We need a wall. We also need it, though, for the drugs, because the drugs arent going through walls very easily -- especially the walls that I build. Im a very good builder. You people know that better than most because you live in the area. Thats why Im here.  Well build a good wall.
Now, were going to build a real wall. Were going to build a wall that works, and its going to have a huge impact on the inflow of drugs coming across. The wall is almost -- that could be one of the main reasons you have to have it. Its an additional tool to stop the inflow of drugs into our country.
The previous administration enacted an open-door policy to illegal migrants from Central America. "Welcome in. Come in, please, please." As a result, MS-13 surged into the country and scoured, and just absolutely destroyed, so much in front of it. New arrivals came in and they were all made recruits of each other, and they fought with each other, and then they fought outside of each other. And it got worse and worse, and weve turned that back.
In the three years before I took office, more than 150,000 unaccompanied alien minors arrived at the border and were released all throughout our country into United States communities -- at a tremendous monetary cost to local taxpayers and also a great cost to life and safety.
Nearly 4,000 from this wave were released into Suffolk County -- congratulations -- including seven who are now indicted for murder. You know about that. In Washington, D.C. region, at least 42 alien minors from the border surge have been recently implicated in MS-13-related violence, including 19 charged in killings or attempted killings.
You say, what happened to the old days where people came into this country, they worked and they worked and they worked, and they had families, and they paid taxes, and they did all sorts of things, and their families got stronger, and they were closely knit? We dont see that. Failure to enforce our immigration laws had predictable results: drugs, gangs and violence. But thats all changing now.
Under the Trump administration, America is once more a nation of laws and once again a nation that stands up for our law enforcement officers.  We will defend our country, protect our communities, and put the safety of the American people first. And Im doing that with law enforcement, and were doing that with trade, and were doing that with so much else. Its called America First. Its called an expression Im sure youve never heard of: Make America Great Again. Has anybody heard that expression?
That is my promise to each of you. That is the oath I took as President, and that is my sacred pledge to the American people. Thank you everyone here today. You are really special, special Americans. And thank you in particular to the great police, sheriffs, and ICE officers. You do a spectacular job. The country loves you. The country respects you.
You dont hear it, but believe me, they respect you as much as they respect anything. There is the respect about our country. You are spectacular people.
