Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Holds a Political Rally in Elko, Nevada|October 20, 2018
Thank you very much. And hello, Nevada. Hello, Nevada. Im thrilled to be right here in Elko with you, thousands and thousands of proud, hard-working American patriots. Patriots. In just 17 days, the people of Nevada are going to re-elect Senator Dean Heller to protect your jobs, defend your borders, and to continue making America great again.
Thats what were doing. Early voting starts today, so you got to get out. This is truly an amazing time for our country. The unemployment rate just fell to the lowest level in more than 50 years. More Americans are working today than at any time in our history. Think of that. More people are working in our country today than at any point in the history of our country.
Thats not bad. How do you lose an election with that stat, right? Thats a tough one. Thats a tough one. Here in Nevada, personal incomes have reached an all-time high. Congratulations. Spend your money well. America now has the hottest economy anywhere in the world. Think of that. Were the number-one economy with the world.
Were the hottest economy in the world. Its amazing. Amazing. Pretty amazing, right? A couple of years ago, we were looked upon as being laggards. Theyre laggards! I read that word with one of the fake news folks, they wrote the word, were laggards. Do you notice the good location they got? Theyre so close.
And look at all those people standing behind, they cant see. Id rather have it the other way around, frankly. Were taking care of our veterans and our military will soon be more powerful than it ever has been ever, ever, ever before. And under Republican leadership, America is booming, America is thriving, and America is winning, because we are finally putting America first.
Just last week, we achieved another historic victory for the American people. In a beautiful ceremony -- thank you, sir. You know what I say? But hes just not my type.  Thank you. We had a beautiful ceremony in the White House where we proudly swore in the newest member of the United States Supreme Court, Justice Brett Kavanaugh.
He now sits alongside Justice Neil Gorsuch to defend your rights, your Constitution, and your God-given freedom. What the radical Democrats did to Justice Kavanaugh and his beautiful family is a national disgrace. It is. The Democrat Party has become an angry, ruthless, unhinged mob determined to get power by any means necessary.
Your vote in this election will decide which party controls Congress. The choice for every American could not be more clear. And, by the way, I have to thank Dean Heller for helping us with Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh. Dean Heller was there. Dean Heller was there right from the beginning. So Democrats produce mobs.
Republicans produce jobs. Thats become hashtag. Right? Thats called hashtag. Thats a new hashtag. Thats a hot one. This November, vote for jobs, not mobs. If Nancy Pelosi, crying Chuck Schumer, and the radical Democrats take over Congress, which would be a shame, they will try to plunge our country into a nightmare of gridlock, poverty, and chaos.
And by the way, your 401s? Boom, they will go down like a sinking something. What sinks rapidly? Give me -- a rock. They will go down like a rock. Democrats want to massively raise your taxes, impose socialism on our country. Well be another Venezuela. They want to take away your health care, destroy your Second Amendment, and I think the people in Nevada are not big on having your Second Amendment taken away.
Not a big point. Thats not a good sound bite. How do they win an election? Do we really have an election here? Think of it, they want to take away your Second Amendment, they want to raise your taxes, they want to open your borders, let people in, illegally. And then they want to pay for those people for health care, for education.
They want to give them cars, they want to give them drivers licenses. I said last night, we did a great -- we did a great, great rally in Arizona last night, and I said -- I said last night, what kind of car will they supply them? Will it be a Rolls-Royce? The Democrats want to throw open your borders to deadly drugs and gangs and anybody else that wants to come in. And they really have.
And I say this, and at first I used to say, wow, thats a tough statement, but its true. Democrats are the party of crime. This will be the election of Kavanaugh, the caravan, law and order, tax cuts, and common sense. We got you those -- those big taxes. Dont forget the big tax cuts. And were going to get you more.
The Democrat Party has become too extreme and too dangerous to be trusted with the power that they want. I need everyone here today to cast your vote, ideally today. How about raising your right hand? Do you promise you will leave this site, go out, and cast your vote right now? And hopefully youll vote for Adam Laxalt and hopefully youll vote for Dean Heller.
Get out there. But you do, you have early voting. And you can go out and do it today. And that way you dont have to wait. And, you know, a big portion of your state does do early voting, which is surprising. Very unusual. But youre a very unusual state, right? So when you leave, we really hope that you can volunteer, give your directions -- we have volunteers all over the place, theyll give you directions.
We have places right down the road. So go out and do what you have to do. Were going to have a big victory. We have to have a big victory. This state is really one of the states thats talked about. This is a great race. Its an exciting race. Hes running against wacky Jacky, right? Wacky Jacky. Thats what we need, we need a wacky Jacky in Congress, another one.
Were honored to be joined today by your next governor, Adam Laxalt. Where is Adam? Where is Adam? Hes around. Come up here, Adam. Hes a great guy. I have known Adam for a long time. Hes a veteran, hes a patriot, and hes a real leader. But he is a great, great person. Adam, you got to win, Adam.
All right. Are we motivated? Are we grateful for the president coming here to Elko? The president cares about rural Nevada. He knows how important you all are, how important that we keep the economy going. He has helped bring Elko to 3 percent unemployment. How about that? We have to keep this momentum going.
And we have a clear choice for this state. Are we going to keep Nevada the Nevada we all love, this independent western state, or are we going to turn into California? Were not going to let that happen, are you? We need everybody. We need everybody to get extra motivated. We need to support the president and we need to support Republicans up and down the ticket.
God bless you guys. Thanks so much.
Hes doing really well, but you got to go out and you got to vote. You got to. His opponent is a far-left Democrat, you know that, who wants to massively raise your taxes. He wants to raid your health care. He wants to fund socialism, because thats what it is, and he wants to open your borders, wide open.
Other than that, hes a great guy. So everybody needs to get out and vote, today, ideally, but sometime before the 6th for Adam Laxalt. And everybody also needs to support your great congressman, Mark Amodei. Where is he? Where is he? Thank you, Mark. He is a great guy. And another great guy, who I said stay home, Danny -- stay home, Danny, and just work.
Danny Tarkanian, he is a great guy. So you dont get a chance over here to vote for him, so you know what I said? Dont come, Danny. Just stay in your district. But Danny was really great. Hes been great. Hes been a great friend of ours for a long time. Danny Tarkanian, going to be a great congressman.
Hopefully he gets over the line, because we need him. Finally, Im thrilled to introduce a man that I spent a long time getting to know. At first I fought him. I said, this guys tough. Whats the story here? Dont forget, I havent been doing this long, right? You know, some of these guys, the senator came into my office, all right, Politician, and he said how hes had tremendous victory at the ballot booth.
He was trying to convince me to do something. This isnt Dean, somebody else. He said Ive been in seven races and, sir, I won five of them. And I said, yeah, Ive been in one race and Ive won one. And it was the presidency. And it was the presidency. It was the presidency. And well have one more race, lets win that one, and Ill say Im two for two and let somebody have fun.
Then somebody else will have some fun, right? But I got to know Dean very well. And Ill tell you, once we understood each other -- and hes a tough guy and hes a smart guy and he loves this state a lot -- once we really got to know each other and understand, theres no better partner that I had in Washington than Dean Heller.
And hes a fantastic guy with an incredible family, wife, who I just -- we just flew in together. But when it came to tax cuts, there was nobody tougher, there was nobody smarter. When it came to all of the things were doing, including what were doing, we got rid of the individual mandate, which is the worst, most unpopular thing from Obamacare.
We actually had Obamacare totally repealed and replaced, we couldnt get one Democrat vote, not one. And we repealed. But now, if you notice, your premiums are way, way down. Nobody thought that was possible. And its been very much dismantled, but it will be ultimately totally dismantled. We had it done, we were a little disappointed in one vote.
But we were also disappointed that we didnt get one Democrat vote in the Senate. But a man that -- youre right, what do you expect? The one thing theyre good at -- Ill tell you what, theyre lousy politicians, they have horrible policy. Think of this -- youre running for office and your policy is raise taxes and open borders and crime.
Because basically its crime. How do you win an election? How do you do it? So the -- the one thing they do, they obstruct. And, you know, their whole campaign, you know what they say? Resist. See, ours is called make America great again. Right? Very soon, we keep going like were going, sooner than we thought, its going to be keep America great.
Thatll be for the second four years. Keep America great. And you know what theirs is? Theirs is resist. Resist. What do you think of that? Resist. How do you figure that, resist? Isnt that an inspiring -- we are going to resist. What are you going to resist? Anything, anything. But I want to introduce a man that really has done a fantastic job.
Ill tell you, its true. Once he started -- once we were on the same page, and we are now always on the same page, he has been as strong and tough and smart as anybody in Washington. We got to send him back. We need him badly, Senator Dean Heller.
President Trump, thank you for coming to Elko. Welcome to Trump country. Home of the -- home of the Elko Indians. Home of the Spring Creek Spartans. And designated best small town in America. Mr. President, this is not the swamp. Now, Mr. President, you know a little bit about gold. In fact, I think everything you touch turns to gold.
The mines here in Elko and next door, the Eureka County, produce more coal, more gold here than anywhere else in the country. Welcome to gold country. Now, Mr. President, I had a debate last night. The only reason I had that debate is because you embarrassed my opponent into having it.  He came to Las Vegas and said Jacky Rosen will not debate Dean Heller.
Two days later, she agree to a debate. Mr. President, thank you. Now, I want to have a debate in Reno. And she said no. I said I want to have a debate here in Elko, and she said no. She will only campaign in Las Vegas. So let me tell you what the message is. If youre a Republican, if youre a Democrat, or youre an independent, you dont live in Las Vegas, you are written off.
Thats the message. So heres is the point. Heres the point. Were going to work hard. Were going to move this country forward. This president is doing a great job. Early voting -- early voting starts today. Lets send a message to the Rosen campaign that we want a senator for all of Nevada. Someone who will fight for Las Vegas, someone who will fight for Reno, someone who will fight for Elko.
My heart is right here in Nevada. Thats where my heart is. My voice and your voice is together with mine in Washington, D.C. Mr. President, thank you for making America work again.
Thank you, Mr. and Mrs. Heller. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. And by the way, they did debate last night, and I may be a little bit partial, he really beat her badly. That I will say. He beat her very badly. And, you know, the other thing they dont tell you about wacky Jacky, but I know, because I see where her money is all coming from, like, Los Angeles and New York.
Its not coming from here. Its coming from New York and Los Angeles. Shes not getting the money from here. He gets his money from here. He gets his drive and his energy from here, also. So Dean delivers. And every single day, he delivers for our workers and our families, our veterans, our miners. Hes delivering.
Our miners, we love the miners. Look at that. Whoa. Thats a lot of miners. We love our miners. Dean worked tirelessly to pass V.A. choice, V.A. accountability. You know, 44 years theyve been trying to pass these things, choice, so that a veteran is sick, he gets on line, hes got to wait forever. Hes got to wait forever, days, weeks, months.
And we just passed -- after 44 years, we just got it passed, I signed it two months ago, Veterans Choice, so that if they have to wait on line for 12 days or 14 days or 32 days, or much longer than that -- can you believe it? People are sick, but not bad. By the time they see the doctor, theyre terminally ill.
OK, it could have been solved. They go immediately to see a doctor privately. We pay for their bill. Theyre fixed. Frankly, its not what Im doing it for. We save money, if you can believe this. Its good. We go right to a private doctor. If they have a long wait, they go right to a private doctor. And 44 years, they couldnt get that one passed.
And, you know, V.A. accountability, because, frankly, of the unions and because of civil service, 46 years, V.A. accountability. They treat our veterans badly, you cant do anything. Theyre sadistic! We had that, too. Ill tell you what, they wouldnt have been sadistic when that veteran was A-OK, because they wouldnt have had a shot at it, right?
Not when the veteran was OK. But they took advantage. And they had a lot of things they did wrong. You couldnt do a thing. You couldnt -- they could steal. They could cheat. They could actually be sadistic, horrible to our veterans. And now we just look at them and we say, get your ass out of here, youre fired.
Forty-four years, so were pretty good at getting things approved. Were pretty good at getting things approved. You know, in the V.A. choice, I thought it was like a genius thing I thought up, because I heard they were waiting so long, months sometimes to see a doctor, and waiting on line. Can you imagine?
Even if you have something minor, that -- a pill, a prescription, something easy could do. And, by the way, drug prices are going to be coming down. You see that already. But I thought it was so brilliant, I came back to my group, I said, I got the greatest idea, because I havent been doing this that long, so, you know, it wasnt like high on my list, but it became high.
I did know the veterans were never treated fairly. But I said, I have the greatest idea. Were going to do this. If a veteran has to wait, were going to send them to a private doctor. Well pay the bill. What a genius -- I said, I said, how good is that? They said, sir, weve been trying to get it passed for 44 years.
So I was good at getting things passed. Thats what I did. A vote for wacky Jacky is a vote to hand control of Congress to Nancy Pelosi... crying Chuck Schumer, and, of course, the legendary Maxine Waters. A low IQ individual. Jacky votes against the people of Nevada every chance she gets. She voted no on tax cuts, no on better health care, no on border security, and Jacky voted in favor of deadly sanctuary cities.
I dont think we like sanctuary cities up here. By the way, a lot of people in California dont want them, either. Theyre rioting now. They want to get out of their sanctuary cities. You know, theres a big turn being made, folks. A lot of these sanctuary cities youve been hearing about in California and other places, but California, they want to get out, theyre demanding they be released from sanctuary cities.
Jacky also joined the Democrat assault on Justice Brett Kavanaugh. And dont forget that when you vote. Thats why I want you to vote today, because you definitely dont forgot. But dont forget. And we stuck with Justice Kavanaugh, because he was the right man. Top of his class at Yale, Yale Law School.
Never had a problem until he was attacked by these vicious people that knew what they were doing was wrong. And we did the right thing. If you want to stop the radical Democrat mob from taking control of Congress, then you need to go out today ideally and vote for Dean Heller and Adam Laxalt and others that you like, but you got to get them in. Danny Tarkanian, get Danny in. Danny deserves to be in. Democrats in Congress have already signed up for a socialist takeover of health care that would eliminate the private insurance of 1.6 million people from Nevada.
The Democrats want America to become -- its not even that they want it, but thats whats going to happen -- Venezuela. Venezuela. How does that sound? You like Venezuela? Thats a wonderful place. Not doing too well, folks. The Democrat plan would destroy Medicare and terminate Medicare Advantage for almost 200,000 Nevada seniors who depend on it. Democrats plan to kill Medicare Advantage and, really, its especially unfair to Hispanic Americans.
Do we have many Hispanic Americans here? Eh. Not the most. Weve done better. Not the most. Id give it 5 percent. Thats ok. But I just left a place, it was 45 percent. But theyre happy in every other way, because you know what? Lowest unemployment numbers theyve ever had. One out of every two Hispanic seniors is enrolled in Medicare Advantage.
Republicans want to protect Medicare for our great seniors who have earned it and theyve paid for it. Theyve actually -- you know, they have paid for it. And Republicans will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. And the senator, as much as anybody, the senator is going to do that, hes been doing that.
The new platform of the Democrat Party is radical socialism and open borders, which leads to crime, tremendous crime. As we speak, the Democrat Party -- you know, I used to -- everybody used to call it the Democratic Party. Thats not the name. And it reads so much nicer. It sounds better.  They ought to actually -- Ill give them a little hint.
They should change their name to the Democratic Party. But I call it the Democrat Party, because thats what it is. Its called the Democrat Party. I watch where theyre saying the Democratic Party. Usually, in many -- in many cases, those are people that want to make it look as good as possible. But it is, its the Democrat Party, which doesnt read well.
The other reads better. But were going to call it the Democrat Party. And its openly inviting millions of illegal aliens to break our laws, violate our borders, and overwhelm our nation. The Democrats want caravans. They like the caravans. A lot of people say, I wonder who started that caravan? I want to thank Mexico.
Mexico has been so incredible. Thank you, Mexico. And the leaders of Mexico, thank you. And do you know why? Because now Mexico respects the leadership of the United States. They havent done that. They now respect our leadership. Thank you, Mexico, great. We appreciate it. We do. But what they want is -- and by the way, the wall, the people who scream -- so we started the wall.
Its moving along. I want to build it rapidly. I can do it in a year. We did $1.6 billion, $1.6 billion. We have another $1.6 billion -- sounds like a lot of money. When youre going for almost a thousand miles, its not that much. But the wall is moving. I want to do it in one year. I want them to approve the wall.
The Democrats dont care about what their extremist immigration agenda will do to your communities, to your hospitals, what about your hospitals? And to your schools. The Democrats dont care that a flood of illegal immigration will bankrupt our country. You saw the site. Did anybody see that bridge over the weekend?
Did you see the bridge yesterday, today? I mean, is that an incredible situation? Its sad. And its sad -- honestly, its sad from both sides. Its sad from their side, also. Were going to figure it out. Ill be honest with you, I have already figured it out. Youre going to be happy. Were going to make a lot of people happy.
Were going to make a lot of people happy. I think Ill keep it a little bit low key until the election. I like where we stand in the election. You know, I think that blue wave is being rapidly shattered. You know, all the Democrats want is power, and they got this blue wave deal going. Not looking like a blue wave.
I think Dean Heller is going to win here. I think Martha McSally, she was great last night. Shes going to win. Shes going to win. I think -- I just visited the great state of big sky. You know what big sky is? Just left. And Ill tell you that, theyre going to win. Theyre going to win in Montana. Were going to win all over.
I think were going to win in Indiana. I think were going to win Josh. I think were going to win in Missouri. I think Rick Scott is going to win in the great state of Florida. Youre going to have a great governor in Florida. You know who our governor is, right? Hes going to be, right? You know who Im talking about.
Hes going to be fantastic in Florida. We have a lot of -- big Ron. We call him Ron. Harvard, Yale, smart. Ron DeSantis, hes going to be a great governor of Florida, just like Adam, Adam Laxalt is going to be a great governor for you. You need it. You need it. And, you know, you really do. You need people that can work with Washington, because you take a lot out of Washington.
And you need people that we look forward to working with, not people that we have no respect for. This is why Democrats on the border have such bad concepts, catch and release. Do you know what that is? They catch, they get them, and then they say, oh, goodbye, release them. And do you know what happens to that person?
He gets released into our country, into our society. Thats why Democrats want to give illegal aliens free welfare and free health care. Thats why Democrats want to give illegal immigrants the right to vote. Ill tell you, well go down fighting for that one. Can you imagine? People -- you know, the vote was always so sacred.
Now you see these things where they want the right to vote. They want the right to vote. Theres one town in California were they want to take over the -- illegal immigrants want to take over the control of the board that runs the town, all illegal immigrants. And, you know, you would think theyre kidding.
Seriously, would you even believe this? And they are serious. And I know some people, and theyre serious people, theyre smart people, where -- what happened to them? Whats going on? And thats why Democrats, they want to abolish ICE. Think about that one. So ICE, these are great patriots, great people, great law enforcement.
Theyre tough. They have to be tough. You see what theyre dealing with? Im not going to send you or you -- Im not going to send you -- they have to be -- yeah, Ill send you. I might send you. I might send her.  They saw you. I wont tell you what theyre thinking if they saw you.  I think if they saw you, theyd be happy, very, very happy.
But these are people that are tough people were dealing with. These arent -- I got criticized for using the word babies. One of the newscasts said, he used the word babies. I was trying to figure, is that politically incorrect? I said these arent babies, right? These are tough people. And all of a sudden, why did he use the term babies?
I said dont tell me thats politically incorrect, too. Last night, last night, in Arizona, we had -- you never saw so many people. I said, I want to thank the great men that are here and I want to thank the beautiful women, everyone beautiful, everyone. And I said, ah, I better apologize, because if I dont -- for calling you all beautiful, because if I dont apologize, they will go wild tomorrow.
Headlines, Donald Trump called women beautiful. Theyre all saying, "Please call me beautiful." It is a crazy phenomenon thats going on. But you know what, women? You are beautiful. To me, youre beautiful. Every one of you is beautiful. Every one. Tomorrow, headlines, Trump in Nevada was terrible what he said.
No, Im telling you, these people have lost their way. Theyve gone loco. Headed by the crowd of fake news back there, I will say. Ill tell you, honestly, the single greatest ally that the Democrats have is the fake news media, because without that, these crazy ideas -- I cant believe theyd go anywhere.
You know, if I had the media on my side and with what weve accomplished, because nobody has done more than all of us, nobody has done more in the first two years, and were not even at two years yet. But nobody has done anything close. If they were on my side, instead of always -- everything is -- theyll take a big victory try and make it into a loss.
Theyre very dishonest people. If they were on my side, I think Id be at 100 percent right now. You know, 100 -- I really believe it. Theyd have breaking news, President Trump, his approval rating has just hit 100 percent, 100 percent. Lot of truth. I mean, look at the economy. Look at North Korea. We were going to war with North Korea.
It was going to be -- now look at it. Its going to be fine. Going to be fine. Take your time. Going to be fine. No missiles shot. We got our hostages back. Hey, look at Pastor Brunson. Look at Pastor Brunson. We got Pastor Brunson back. We got 20 back since Im there. And, you know -- I wont go into it. But we got him back the right way.
We got him back the right way. Pastor Brunson just came back. It was such a beautiful -- he was with his family, the most beautiful children, great wife, everything. And it was a beautiful thing. We got Pastor Brunson back. He was -- he was taken during the Obama administration years, and they never came close.
And I said, yeah, got to have him back. Got to have him back. Im sorry. Weve got to have him back. We got him back. Hes home. Hes home. Nice man. The casualties in the Democrats open borders crusade are really a lot. Far more than anybody would know, of innocent American families and lives. Democrat immigration policies allow poisonous drugs and MS-13 killers to pour into our country.
These are not people that you dont want to have ICE around. ICE goes into these nests, you know, theyre nests, MS-13. I call them a nest. They go into the nest like ho-hum, its a day in the office. You understand. Because Im telling you, you guys, even the tough guys here, you dont want to do it. You dont want to do it. Shes done it, she said.
If you did it, you didnt do it by choice. Ah, she said, no, I didnt. Whats this story all about? I want to find out about this story. Come on up here -- no, Im kidding. And the Democrats sanctuary cities release -- and this is what happens, they release violent predators out of jail and straight into your communities, and then theyre protected.
These are protected people. A Democrat victory in November would be a bright, flashing invitation to every human trafficker, drug trafficker -- think of it. But think of it. Human trafficking is the highest its ever been in the history of this world. Can you -- because of the Internet. You know, you wouldnt think human trafficking, they steal people, they traffic people.
And that is a massive business because of the Internet, the computers, wonderful computer age, right? Maybe it was better the other way, right? Maybe. But then you wouldnt have @RealDonaldTrump. That wouldnt be so good, right? But -- but think of it. Human trafficking is worse than its ever been, OK, worse than its ever been, and you would think that would be impossible.
Who would even think about this? But drug trafficking, drug dealing, illegal aliens all over the planet, and we are stopping it. A Republican victory will send the message that America will enforce our borders and defend our citizens. Thats what we want. This is your choice in November. Can you believe its almost two years?
Can you believe that? Remember that beautiful November 8th? Dont get that confused -- dont get that confused with November 6th. Ill just mention it one more time, November 8th, was that a great, great day? That was the greatest political movement in the history of our country, maybe anywhere. And they never questioned me on that.
You know they want to. Because, you know, theyd say -- Id like to give him a Pinocchio, four Pinocchios. They never question me on that. Look, watch. Was that the greatest single political movement in the history of our country? Peter? Peter, yes, Peter Doocy. The great Peter Doocy. There is no doubt who his father is. Look at him.
Peters -- here, was this the greatest political movement in history? Dont answer it  All right, good to have you all. Were having a good time. Democrats believe illegal border crossers should be set free immediately. Republicans believe illegal border crossers have to be brought back home immediately.
Democrats believe our country should be a sanctuary for criminal aliens. Republicans believe our country should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Americans. Democrats believe American taxpayers should provide free welfare to illegals. Republicans believe welfare should be protected for truly needy Americans.
If you want to save your country, if you want to protect your family, if you want to defend Americas laws, borders, sovereign, and even your dignity, then you have to go out today and vote. You got to go out and vote. Now, if youre thinking about voting Democrat, dont go out today and vote. Dont go. I would say there may be -- for the media -- no Democrats in this audience.
Would you say? Is there anybody here that wants to vote Democrat? Seriously? A lot of people. Now, the press never shows how many people, you know? They show, like, my face. And they never leave. And Ill say to my wife, Melania, is she doing a great job as first lady? I will say to my wife, honey, you should have seen the crowd, it was unbelievable.
I mean, we had in Missouri 45,000 people that couldnt get into a 10,000-seat arena because it was packed. And I said, did they show the crowd? No. All they do is they keep it right here. They never move it around. I wish youd move the cameras around. Just move it around. And this is Elko, pretty amazing.
Amazing. Pretty amazing. And by the way, Joe Biden is in Las Vegas. Joe. Sleepy Joe Biden. We call him 1 percent Joe because he ran at least twice, I think three times, they say twice, I think he ran three times, and he never had more than 1 percent. So we call him 1 percent Joe. And then, oh, remember what happened?
And then Obama came along and took him off of the trash heap and made him vice president. But he never had more than 1 percent, so we call him either sleepy Joe Biden or 1 percent. Which is better? Sleepy Joe? Sleepy Joe. Oh, no, she said creepy Joe. Not creepy. Creepy. She said creepy Joe. I -- no, I would never do that.
I would never insult him like that. She said shes only kidding. I would never insult. But listen to this. So we have a lot of people. And we have 6,000, 7,000 people over here that couldnt get in. And heres the thing. Heres the thing. Biden, they just said the count, 193 people showed up. And we love Elko, but in all fairness, it is easier to draw a crowd in Las Vegas.
Do we agree? We want to be here, but it is, right? Yeah, he had 193 people. And he was thrilled. Thats one of the biggest crowds hes ever had.  This election is also about prosperity. In less than two years, we have created over 4.2 million new jobs and lifted over 4 million Americans off of food stamps.
Hispanic American household income has reached an all-time high. Hispanic American poverty has reached an all-time historic low. Hispanic American unemployment has reached its lowest rate ever recorded in history. African American and Asian American unemployment have reached their lowest rates ever recorded in history.
And womens unemployment just fell to 3.6 percent, which is still the same best number in 65 years. I cant get rid of that number. I cant get rid of that number. I wanted to be in history, and I cant -- Im sorry, women, I apologize. Women have the best number in 65 years. And I have to apologize, because African American and Hispanic and Asian, its history.
Women, its only at 65 years. You know what? Remember they used to say two years ago, hell never get the womens vote. I got the womens vote. I got the womens vote. And look at all the women signs, Peter! Look at all those signs, Peter! Look, women for Trump. Ill tell you what, I think women like me more now than they did two years ago.
I... Because they want safety, they want security, they want their husband and themselves to have great 401s, right? Remember, youre going to pay a big price if you vote for somebody else, because whats going to happen, its going to be cut down big, remember I told you. Youre going to say, what the hell is happening to our 401 as it does a big nosedive?
And Im talking 50 percent, 60 percent, 70 percent. Those are the numbers were talking about, OK? Because when I took over, this place was heading south. If we didnt free up the regulations that were strangling our country, if we didnt do the tax cuts -- and I think maybe the regulations are the most important -- people dont see it -- but we opened up hundreds of thousands of jobs right away.
The only reason to vote Democrat is if you are tired of winning. Every day we are living by our motto, promises made, promises kept. Right? Its even better than that. Earlier this month, I announced that we are replacing the horrible NAFTA deal with the incredible brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement.
The USMCA is a tremendous victory for Nevada farmers and ranchers, and for all farmers and ranchers, and everybody, for manufacturers. Its fantastic. And Ill tell you what, again, Mexico is treating us differently. Theyre treating us with respect. And part of that is the relationship we developed with Mexico and with Canada in making this deal.
NAFTA was a disaster. Millions and millions of jobs were lost to NAFTA. And to this day, that thing should have been terminated two weeks after it signed. It was. It was obsolete, and they made mistakes, and they never even corrected the mistakes. We lived with them for 25 years. So weve taken the toughest-ever action to crack down on Chinas abusive trade practices.
Were doing very well. As Republicans passed the biggest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. We have taken -- and thats Dean Heller was right at the front. We have taken bold action to reduce the price of prescription drugs. We have launched a historic effort to combat the opioid -- where I know you have a big problem here -- the opioid epidemic, signing the largest bill focused on fighting opioid addiction, and fighting the spread of opioid all over this country.
Largest in American history. Last year, we had $6 billion in our budget. By the way, is that sun hot or what? Man. Im saying it. This wasnt part of the game. Ill -- Ill end up with a nice tan, thats OK. We secured $700 billion and $716 billion for our military. Our military will soon be the strongest it has ever been in the history of our country.
And we gave our warriors the largest pay raise in almost a decade, our warriors, our military. And at my direction, the Pentagon is now working to create the sixth branch, and Dean is helping, but its been very popular, I may even get Democrat votes, can you believe that? Sixth branch, because this is where its at. The American armed forces sixth branch is called the Space Force.
Space Force! I withdrew the United States from the horrible, one-sided Iran nuclear deal. It was a catastrophe. And we have recognized the capital of Israel and opened the American embassy in Jerusalem. Together we have made extraordinary progress, but we are just getting started. We have to get some more Republican votes.
You know, they always say we have the majority. Our majority is like this. I say, if somebody has a cold and they cant come in, we lose the majority, so we have to wait until they get better. We need more Republicans in D.C. If you vote to elect a Republican House and a Republican Senate, we will continue to cut your taxes, to cut regulations, and to raise your incomes, like weve been doing.
Your incomes have gone way up. We will protect Medicare and we will protect your Social Security. And remember, when I was on that stage, I was the only one that said Im going to protect your Social Security, and I have. And youve heard a lot of talk from a lot of people about Social Security. You never heard it from Donald J. Trump.
Because the Democrats will end up destroying them both, Medicare, Social Security. We will defend the Second Amendment. And there is a tremendous amount of pressure being put right now on your Second Amendment. We will defend it. You dont have to worry about that. Protect your right to free speech and religious liberty.
And we will continue to confirm judges who will interpret the Constitution as written. We will fully secure the border. We will pass Kates law. We will stop sanctuary cities. We will stop catch and release, and the visa lottery catastrophe, and the chain migration catastrophe. And we will keep the drug dealers the hell out of our country.
We will lift millions of our citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity. For years you watched as your leaders apologized for America. Now you have a president who is standing up for you and for America.  We are standing up for your values.
We are standing up for Nevada. And we are proudly standing up for our national anthem. But to continue this incredible momentum to protect your state and your country, you need to vote Republican. You have to do it. Go out today and vote, Dean Heller, Adam Laxalt, go out and vote. A vote for Republicans is a vote for more jobs, for more wealth, for more products made right here.
Remember the old days, made in the USA? Thats happening again. Made in the USA. Its a vote to respect our laws and respect the heroes of law enforcement. Thank you, law enforcement. Thank you. And a vote for Republicans is a vote to reject the Democrat politics of hatred, anger, and division, and to celebrate the greatness and the glory of being American.
Loyal citizens like you helped build this country. And together we are taking back our country, returning power to you, the American people. And when you see me tomorrow, and youll say, oh, isnt that so bad, look, hes so sunburned? Just remember, Elko, you did it to me. You did it. Its you. The great state -- and this is really a great state -- was settled by tough pioneer men and strong pioneer women.
And Ill add: Strong and beautiful pioneer women. And Ill also add: Who are tougher than the men, actually. Who took the risks and defied the dangers to build a life, a home, and to build a dream. You didnt have a lot of money. They didnt have a lot of luxury, but they all had one thing in common. They loved their families, they loved their country, and they loved their God.
These courageous Nevada patriots did not shed their blood, sweat, and tears so that we could sit at home while others erase the legacy and destroy our proud American heritage. Thats what theyre doing. They want to destroy our American heritage. For the sake of our freedom, for the sake of our children, we are going to work, we are going to fight, and we are going to win, win, win.
Very simple. Were going to keep winning, too, win. Nothing like winning, folks. Nothing like winning. We will not bend, we will not break, we will never give in, we will never give up, we will never back down, we will never surrender, and we will always go on to victory. Because we are Americans. And our hearts bleed red, white, and blue.
We are one people, one family, and one glorious nation under God. And together we will be so proud. We will be so proud. How proud are we? Are we proud? You know, America is respected again. I was at the United Nations and the leaders of the countries were coming up to me, countries that couldnt have cared less, and theyre saying, I must tell you, Mr. President, America is respected again.
