Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump Addresses the National Governors Association Meeting|February 27, 2017
Thank you very much.  That is pretty good, Ill tell you. Coming from governors, I cant really -- I cant even believe it. Thats so impressive. And I very much appreciate you being here. And thank you to Vice President Pence. He has been so wonderful to work with. Hes a real talent, a real guy. And he is central casting, do we agree? Central casting. Hes been great.
Good morning, everybody, and welcome back to the White House. The First Lady and I were very, very happy last night to host you. We saw some real talent, military talent, musicians who were fantastic. And everybody enjoyed it.
Im very proud to have so many former governors in my Cabinet. Vice President Pence, as you know, big governor from a very great state -- I state I like very much -- Indiana. Nikki Haley at the U.N. -- is Nikki here someplace? I think so -- yes. We have Rick Perry -- is going before. Were trying to get people approved, we cant get them out. But Rick is going to do a fantastic job. Sonny Purdue will be joining the Cabinet very soon. Terry Branstad will be our ambassador to China. And an interesting story on Terry -- every time I spoke in Iowa, hed say, please dont say anything bad about China.  I said, what do you mean? What do you mean? He said, I like China and we do a lot of business with China. "And really, just dont" -- and I said, "hmm." So when it came down to picking an ambassador, I called him up, I said, you like China. And I can tell you, China is very, very happy with our choice. So we made everybody happy.  Right? These governors -- thank you. And thank you, Terry.
These governors have been bold reformers, and their success shows why we need to make states the laboratories of democracy once again. Many of you have shared past frustrations with waiting for permission from the federal government and agencies -- and I understand that, and Ive had many people tell me about it, and its been catastrophic for some of your states. You know your citizens and you know they want things done. But they dont get things done and its not your fault. Sometimes its your fault, but they understand that. But sometimes its not your fault. Were going to speed it up.
Because thats not how a partnership is supposed to work. The government should not stand in your way in delivering needed reforms and services -- and it wont. Were going to move very, very quickly, environmentally, with Scott and so many others that are involved in the process of regulation. We are going to be cutting -- were going to be doing the right thing. Were going to be protecting people environmentally and safety-wise, but were going to be moving it quickly, very quickly.
And speaking of that, I know many of you -- and Ive spoken to some of you last night about it -- have many projects that are -- I mean, just literally tied up because of environmental concerns, and its been in for years and years and years the project your state wants, great for employment -- everybody wants them -- and they couldnt get them out of environmental protection. And we will get them out. Now, that doesnt mean theyre going to be approved, but theyll be rejected quickly one way or the other. Theyll be either rejected quickly or theyre going to get approved. I would say most will be approved, but youre going to know youre not going to wait nine years or eleven years -- some of the horror stories that Ive heard.
Under my administration, were going to have a true partnership of collaboration and cooperation. We will get to the answers and we will get them quickly, and the flexibility you need to implement the reforms that you are going to have in order to make decision-making proper and decision-making fast. So were going to do both those things -- proper and fast.
One of the most important responsibilities for the federal government is the budget of the United States. My first budget will be submitted to the Congress next month. This budget will be a public safety and national security budget, very much based on those two with plenty of other things, but very strong. And it will include a historic increase in defense spending to rebuild the depleted military of the United States of America at a time we most need it.
And youll be hearing about that tomorrow night in great detail. This is a landmark event, a message to the world, in these dangerous times, of American strength, security and resolve. We must ensure that our courageous servicemen and women have the tools they need to deter war, and when called upon to fight in our name only do one thing: Win. We have to win. We have to start winning wars again.
I have to say, when I was young, in high school and college, everybody used to say "we havent lost a war" -- we never lost a war -- you remember. Some of you were right there with me, and you remember we never lost a war. America never lost. And now we never win a war. We never win. And we dont fight to win. We dont fight to win. So we either got to win, or dont fight it at all. But where we are -- 17 years -- almost 17 years of fighting in the Middle East. I saw a chart the other day -- as of about a month ago, $6 trillion weve spent in the Middle East -- $6 trillion. And I want to tell you, thats just unacceptable. And were nowhere. Actually, if you think about it, were less than nowhere. The Middle East is far worse than it was 16, 17 years ago. Theres not even a contest. So weve spent $6 trillion. We have a hornets nest. Its a mess like youve never seen before. Were nowhere. So were going to straighten it out.
This defense spending increase will be offset and paid for by finding greater savings and efficiencies across the federal government. Were going to do more with less. I got involved in an airplane contract, I got involved in some other contracts, and we cut the hell out of the prices. I mean, we saved a lot of money, tremendous amount of money, beyond anything that the generals that were involved -- they said theyd never seen anything like this before.
On one plane, on a small order of one plane, I saved $725 million. And I would say I devoted about, if I added it up, all those calls, probably about an hour. So I think that might be my highest and best use.  Because if we can do that, our budget will be -- might be my highest and best.
And there are many other places; its all the same. And in one way, thats a good thing because we have an answer. And David is going to do a fantastic job at the VA. I see David is sitting there, shaking his head. Stand up, David.  So we cant get our people through Cabinet, but he went through -- was it 95 to nothing?
A hundred to zero.
How the hell did you do that?  Boy, oh boy. He must be good. You were the one. One hundred to zero, wow. Chose you -- hey, we can do it. But we do -- we have still quite a few Cabinet members, and theyre just in limbo waiting and waiting. Its like obstruction. Its obstruction. But eventually well get them, and theyll put their people in, and well get those agencies, et cetera, to work.
Were going to do more with less and make the government lean and accountable to the people. We can do so much more with the money we spend. With $20 trillion in debt -- can you imagine that -- the government must learn to tighten its belt, something families all across the country have had to learn to do, unfortunately. But theyve had to learn to do it, and theyve done it well.
My budget increases spending, and the increase in all spending, for federal law enforcement also. And activities having to do with law enforcement will be substantially increased. And we will fight violent crime. If you look at whats happening in our cities, you look at whats happening in Chicago, whats going on in Chicago -- we will fight violent crime, and we will win. And well win that one fairly quickly. Once we give the local police, the local law enforcement the right to go in and fight it, and we back them monetarily and also otherwise, were going to win that one. Were going to win it fairly quickly, I believe.
My budget also puts America first by keeping tax dollars in America to help veterans and first responders. So important. This budget follows through on my promise to focus on keeping Americans safe, keeping out terrorists, keeping out criminals, and putting violent offenders behind bars, or removing them from our country altogether. And I must say that weve been treated very well -- very, very well -- on the job that General Kelly has done at the border. Its tough, its strong.
I was talking last night to Terry McAuliffe, and he said, you have to mention this -- because he met with -- where is Terry? Hes around here someplace. Terry -- he met with General Kelly, and I think I can say you were impressed with General Kelly. And he said, you have to get the point out that theyre removing the bad ones. And thats where our focus is -- its the bad ones. Were getting some very, very bad players out of this country -- drug lords, gang members, heads of gangs, killers, murderers -- were getting them out. Thats what were focused on.
The press isnt covering that, unfortunately, but its something that is very important. Were getting the bad ones out. And thats always where I said I was going to start. I was going to start with these bad players. And they are bad. They are rough and tough, and were getting them the hell out of our country, and were bringing them to where they started out. Let their country do what they have to do with them.
So the budget, which is going to be a very big part of tomorrow nights speech, its going to be I think a budget of great rationality. But its going to have to do with military, safety, economic development, and things such as that. Great detail tomorrow night.
Were also going to do whatever we can to restore the authority of the states when that is the appropriate thing to do. Were going to give you back a lot of the powers that have been taken away from states and great people and great governors. And you can control it better than the federal government because youre right on top of it. You have something thats controllable. So I think thats going to be very important. You see that already taking effect.
We have to let the states compete and to see who has the best solutions. They know the best how to spend their dollars and how to take care of the people within each state. And the states are different, and people are different. So the governors are going to have a lot more decision-making ability than they have right now.
All states will benefit from our economic agenda. We will reduce taxes very, very substantially, and simplify the tax code. Were also going to make taxes between countries much more fair. Were one of the only countries in the world that people can sell their product into us and have no tax, no nothing, and they get rich. And yet if you want to do business with them, youll have taxes, Ive seen, as high as 100 percent. So they sell into us, no problem; we sell into them -- because we dont sell them because the tax is so high that they dont want us to sell into them.
So I know thats always been a point of contention, but to me its just fair. Its just fair. Its reciprocal. Its fair. And so were going to be doing a lot of work on that, and thats becoming a very, very important factor -- fairness. Because I believe in free trade. I want so much trade -- somebody said, oh, maybe hes a total nationalist -- which I am, in a true sense -- but I want trade. I want great trade between countries.
But the word "free" is very deceiving, because its good for them, its not good for us. I want fair trade. And if were going to be taxed, they should be taxed at the same amount, the other countries. And one of two things is going to happen: Were going to make a lot of money or the other country is going to get rid of its tax. And thats good, too, because now the product, like Harley-Davidson -- I was talking to them -- the product will now flow into other countries where right now they cant do it.
So were going to make it easier for states to invest in infrastructure, and Im going to have a big statement tomorrow night on infrastructure. We spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, and we have potholes all over our highways and our roads. I have a friend who is in the trucking business. He said, my trucks are destroyed going from New York to Los Angeles. Theyre destroyed. He said, Im not going to get the good trucks. He always prided himself on buying the best equipment. He said, the roads are so bad that, by the time we make the journey from New York to Los Angeles or back, he said the equipment is just beat to hell. I said, when has it been like that before? He said, its never -- hes been in the business for 40 years -- he said its never been like that. Forty years -- never been like that. So were going to take care of that.
Infrastructure -- were going to start spending on infrastructure big. And its not like we have a choice. Its not like, oh, gee, lets hold it off. Our highways, our bridges are unsafe. Our tunnels -- I mean, we have tunnels in New York where the tiles are on the ceiling, and you see many tiles missing. And you wonder, you know, youre driving at 40 miles an hour, 50 miles an hour through a tunnel. Take a look at the Lincoln Tunnel and the Queens-Midtown Tunnel, and youre driving, and you see all this loose material thats heavy. And it was made many years ago, so its heavy. Today, its light. It used to be better. The problem is, you got to hold it up. And I say to myself -- every time I drive through, I say, I wonder how many people are hurt or injured when they are driving at 40, 50 miles an hour through a tunnel, and the tile falls off. And there are so many missing tiles and such loose concrete. So we have to fix our infrastructure. Its not like we have a choice. We have no choice, and were going to do it, and it also happens to mean jobs, which is a good thing.
Were going to repeal and replace Obamacare, and get states the flexibility that they need to make the end result really, really good for them. A very complicated issue. We have Tom Price, just got confirmed -- sitting here.  Stand up, Tom. And I spent a lot of time with Governor Walker and Governor Rick Scott the other day -- we were talking about it. Theyre really very expert on the subject, and I want to thank them. They spent a lot of time with me. Governor Christie whos here someplace. Wheres Chris? Governor Christie, thank you. And so we have a lot of talent and a lot of expertise here, I will tell you. And we have come up with a solution thats really, really, I think, very good.
Now, I have to tell you, its an unbelievably complex subject. Nobody knew that healthcare could be so complicated. And statutorily and for budget purposes, as you know, we have to do healthcare before we do the tax cut. The tax cut is going to be major, its going to be simple, and the whole tax plan is wonderful. But I cant do it until we do healthcare because we have to know what the healthcare is going to cost. And, statutorily, thats the way it is. So for those people that say, oh, gee, I wish we could do the tax first -- it just doesnt work that way. I would like to do that first. Its actually -- tax cutting has never been that easy, but its a tiny, little ant compared to what were talking about with Obamacare.
And you have to remember -- and I say this to Democrats in the room -- of which we have many -- Obamacare has failed. If you go to Minnesota, where they had a 66-percent increase, and the governor of Minnesota, who is with us today, said, Obamacare -- the Affordable Care Act -- is no longer affordable -- something to that effect. I think that might be it exactly. But the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Obamacare has failed.
I say to the Republicans, if you really want to do politically something good, dont do anything. Sit back for a period of two years, because 17 is going to be a disaster -- a disaster -- for Obamacare if we dont do something. Let it be a disaster because we can blame that on the Dems that are in our room, and we can blame that on the Democrats and President Obama. Let it implode, and then let it implode in 18 even worse. Dont do anything, and they will come begging for us to do something. But thats not the fair thing to do for the people. Its not the fair thing.
Politically, I think it would be a great solution, because as soon as we touch it, if we do the most minute thing -- just a tiny, little change -- whats going to happen? Theyre going to say, its the Republicans problem. Thats the way it is. But we have to do whats right because Obamacare is a failed disaster.
And its interesting, its sort of like, when you see -- you see it with politicians, you see it with President Obama -- when you know hes getting out of office and the clock is ticking, and hes not going to be there, his approval rating goes way up, even though, you know, not that active in the last period of time. The approval rating goes up. Thats not him; thats like almost everybody. I see it happening with Obamacare. People hate it, but now they see that the end is coming, and theyre saying, oh, maybe we love it. Theres nothing to love. Its a disaster, folks, okay? So you have to remember that.
And, very importantly, we are going to work to restore local control to our nations education system. Betsy is here someplace, and she is going to be, I think, fantastic.  I think shes going to be fantastic. Stand up, Betsy. Betsy feels so strongly, and she has had such support from so many people. You know, you dont see that too much because you see the anti, you never see the positive. But I can tell you, Ive had so many calls while she was going through that horrible process. That was a tough, tough, nasty process. And she hung in, she was as strong as you get. But so many people were calling Betsy, saying you will do such a fantastic job once you get it.
Its like sometimes Id say, its much tougher to get into Harvard than it is to stay there. Does that make sense? Its tougher to get into the Wharton School of Finance -- you cant get in. But if you get in, its fine, you get through, right? I think youre going to do a fantastic job, and were very proud of you. And you took a lot of heat, but youre going to do great. So she wants to bring decision-making powers back to parents, back to the families and back to the states, where they can really control education.
And just finally, Im looking forward to working with you on these projects and so much more. Were going to do these projects and so many more. And I thank you all again for being here. Its going to be a really productive discussion -- so productive that Im going to ask the press to start leaving because I wouldnt want them to see any great, productive session.  But theyll be seeing it and hearing about it.
