Donald Trump|Interview: Donald Trump Forbes Interview With Randall Lane and Lewis DVorkin|October 6, 2017
I am having fun. Im enjoying it. Were accomplishing a lot. Your stock market is at an all-time high. Your jobs, your unemployment is at the lowest point in almost 17 years. We have fantastic numbers coming out. And I think well have, over the course of the next, fairly short period of time, and more importantly over a long period of time, were going to have great numbers coming out of our country.
I enjoy success. And were having tremendous success, as a country. We have some difficulties with respect to North Korea, the Middle East. I inherited -- and Ive said it often -- I inherited a mess. The country was having many different problems. Among them, the Middle East, ISIS, which weve done more with respect to ISIS in nine months than weve done in nine years.
But we have really done, we have done, I would say eight months in eight years, to be specific. But we have done a really, really good job with the military. Were building up our military. We just had an over $700 billion budget, which will be approved.
Were, you know, theres been few times where the military was more important than what it is right now. And, in addition to that, which is by far the overriding element, its lots of jobs in the United States. So, what the country is doing, were doing very well. And on an economic front, were doing very well.
Well, I think it helped. Its certainly a different kind of job than, really there is anywhere. Because you have so many skills necessary. But certainly the campaign was successful. What people dont realize is that I spent much less money than Hillary Clinton. So right there, perhaps thats business. You know, if you look at the numbers its astronomically different.
I dont think anybodys ever written that. You know, in the old days, if you spent less money and won, that was supposed to be a good thing. Today nobody talks about it. But I spent much less money and won. I think thats -- so we start off there -- I think that was good. I also think that, yes, being in -- just last night I had dinner with all of our generals and admirals, at the highest level. You probably saw that.
It was lovely. It was fantastic. But I talked about business. I said, "Your equipment is coming in too slowly and at too great a cost."" And I actually got involved in negotiating
And shes a terrific person. But I developed a bidding system between Boeing and Lockheed. And I was able to reduce the price of the Lockheed by billions of dollars. By billions of dollars. And this took me, actually, a very small amount of time. And I read a story, and this when I was president-elect, had not come here yet. And I called the military. I said, "Whats the problem?"" We met with the generals."
I then met with Lockheed. I then -- the generals were unable to get anything off the price. And in fact, they wanted to raise the price and claim extras. And I met with Marillyn , from Lockheed. I then went and had a very frank discussion with her. I then met with Boeing, and I said, "Well
And thats one thing. There are many, many things that I was too late into the game for the President Gerald Ford aircraft carrier. But it took too long to build, and it was way over budget. And you know, those things, were being much more conscious as a country about things such as that.
Well, I dont know.
Pain points?
Oh, sure. You always have obstacles.
Well, you have Congress. Thats a big obstacle in many cases. You have, in some cases, well-meaning people in Congress that truly feel strongly about something. And I understand that and actually dont mind that. And then of course you have grandstanders and others that want to try and make a point or want to do something that really isnt necessarily in the best interests of the country
And those people I fight. And what people dont know is that Ive had just about the most legislation passed of any president, in a nine-month period, thats ever served. We had over 50 bills passed. Im not talking about executive orders only, which are very important. Im talking about bills. Weve had a tremendous amount of legislation passed.
Like VA accountability, which nobody could get passed. Meaning people are accountable now, because before you couldnt do anything if you caught people who worked there doing very bad things. But many, many bills have been passed. And now were going for taxes. I will get health care. Im one vote short of health care. Ill get health care.
And I think block-granting it back to the states is going to be a great thing to do. I think itll be great for the people. Smaller government, great for the people. Theyll be able to handle it better. But were one --
Yeah, I like it very much. I do. I like it. Its block-granting. Its granting the money back to the states.
And you have a smaller form of government thats going to be able to do -- if they do a proper job -- that will be able to do. There are certain states where they are very well run. And I could name them. I could name certain states where they really -- they will do miracles with that money, in terms of health care.
Itll be far better than it is. Because Obamacare has failed, badly. So Im working on that now. But we actually, I would say, I either have the votes or Im one vote short. And I believe well get health care done sometime prior to the election.
Well, thats an interesting, thats a very interesting question. Its a failed concept. Its thousands and thousands of pages. Its been amended by additional thousands of pages. Its a total mess. The premiums are going up, you know.
Well, were actually, what were doing is trying to keep it afloat, because its failing. I mean the insurance companies are fleeing and have fled. They fled before I got here. But with that being said, no, Obamacare is Obamas fault. Its nobody elses fault. In fact, if you go back to --
Yes. But Ive always said Obamacare is Obamas fault. Its never going to be our fault. With that being said, I think the Democrats want to make a deal. At the same time, I think I have a deal with the Republicans. So I have the best of both worlds. Thats business to a certain extent --
-- when you asked the business question. And as you have noticed, Im very able to make deals with Democrats if I have to.
Well, the Republicans have something called the filibuster rule. Which is a disaster. And if they dont get rid of that, its always going to be very tough for them. You know what that is.
The filibuster rule is --
Well, you need eight Democrat votes every time. I mean, they literally need eight Democratic votes. And, they keep it for the sake of history. But history is that, in 1789, when it all began, what it actually, when they started voting, it was 1789, the first votes, that was a simple majority. And we should go back to a simple majority.
If we had the filibuster rule, if we had the 60 votes for Justice Gorsuch, he would not be sitting on the bench right now because for the judges that has been taken off. And part of my plan is that the Democrats would take it off in two minutes. And the Republicans --
Well, they were going to. Well, they did it for the judge. Dont forget, 95 percent of that work was done before we got there. So I think the filibuster rule is very bad. At the same time, I think if we pass taxes, I think well have health care and taxes before. I believe well have a great infrastructure bill before, which is easiest of all of them.
In fact, I think Ill have more Democrat votes for infrastructure than I will Republican votes. And I also have another bill that I think will be very -- an economic development bill, which I think will be fantastic. Which nobody knows about. Which you are hearing about for the first time. But Im going to do that. But before --
Economic development incentives for companies. Incentives for companies to be here. Incentives for companies to do things.
And itll be a great bill. Its something Ive had. I just dont want to do it before I do health care --
So that when companies leave our country, they get penalized severely. So that when companies stay in our country, theyre incentivized. But there wont be any more companies, and its really stuck. I hope you have seen -- again, this is an interview where I am doing the talking, I guess -- but I hope youve seen that companies are moving back into our country. You saw Toyota, five plants. Other companies, car companies are moving back into our country. They are expanding their plants.
We have a lot of --
Its both. Its both. Its both a carrot and a stick. It is an incentive to stay. But it is perhaps even more so -- if you leave, its going to be very tough for you to think that youre going to be able to sell your product back into our country.
Very comfortable, because theres no tax if you stay. Theres no tax. We have to protect our companies. And if you looked at whats happened, theyve been ravaged by the stupidity of politics and, frankly, the stupidity of politicians. Theyve been ravaged. And we have to protect our companies. We have to protect our workers. And the only way youre going to do that is you have to create rules.
I mean, when you talk about, Randall, when you talk about fairness, do you think its fair that some countries charge us 100% tariff, or tax, to sell a product in their country? And yet the same product coming out of that country coming into our country comes into our country for no tax.
See, that makes it unfair for our companies. And what I want to do is reciprocal. See, I think the concept of reciprocal is a very nice concept. If somebody is charging us 50 percent, we should charge them 50 percent. Right now they charge us 50 percent, and we charge them nothing. That doesnt work with me.
Yes.
Yes. This will not increase, this will lower the deficit, because I think were going to take off like we have never taken off before. This is going to bring jobs back. This is going to bring $3 trillion dollars back.
Yeah, well, the offshore money.
Thats part of it.
Yes.
First of all, were going to have some spending cuts, okay. We are going to really have some spending cuts. But I will tell you that most of what we are going to do is were going to gain. Look at GDP. So GDP last quarter was 3.1%. Most of the folks that are in your business, and elsewhere, were saying that would not be hit for a long time. You know, Obama never hit the number.
He never hit it on a yearly basis. Never hit it on a yearly basis. Thats eight years. I think well go substantially higher than that. And I think this quarter would have been phenomenal, except for the hurricanes. The hurricanes were very very -- actually there was some really good things on the jobs report that just came out. You saw.
The hurricanes had a huge impact on and, you know, as soon as I saw the first hurricane I said, "Thats bad."" Then I saw the second
What Im saying, though, is that the tax cuts will spur business. Companies will stay in our country -- they wont be leaving. Companies will be hiring people. Theyll be expanding. Theyll be building new plants, and thats what its all about. Itll be a great spur, so through growth, our deficits will come down.
Well, what I say is that the, this whole concept, everybody benefits if the country does well. We all do. You guys benefit. Everybody benefits if the country does well. Were the highest-taxed nation in the world -- now some people like to say "developed nation
Were the highest-taxed developed nation in the world, probably the highest-taxed nation in the world. It makes it very uncompetitive when youre paying 42 and 44%, if you start including state taxes and other things that many businesses have to, depending on what state theyre in, and in China youre at 15% and in other countries youre at numbers far lower than that. So, were bringing it to 20, I was thinking in terms of 15.
Actually. The corporate tax rate. I was actually saying 15 for the purpose of getting to 20.
But it was a spread that I didnt like. You know I didnt want to be talking about, so we started at 20 with the understanding Im not negotiating. I actually wanted the 15, so that, because as you know, this will be a negotiation --
-- for the next 30 days.
But I wanted the 15 in order to get to 20.
Did you say Trumps not as rich? What?
Well, were going to have to see what happens. Were going to have to see what happens. The estate tax is for many, many family companies where people are forced to sell their businesses. That includes farms. But it includes a lot of businesses, any business -- not even small businesses only.
Large businesses also, where the estate tax is so onerous that families are forced to sell and some cases have fire sales and not get proper pricing. And in many cases, those businesses dont do very well after the family leaves.
So thats the primary reasoning behind the estate tax. But well be talking about estate tax. Well be talking about all of it. You know, it will be a very serious set of negotiations going on over the next period of time. But the estate tax is really for those businesses, of which there are many, that are forced to go out of business or forced to sell for that reason.
Well, the big advantage that I would get is if the economy does well. Thats a great thing for me -- politically and otherwise. But the economy is a very -- you know its very interesting, Randall. I built a great business, but it doesnt mean anything to me. My children are running it. It doesnt mean anything to me anymore.
I dont even think about it because this is so big, what Im doing now, so big and so, so important because this country was going in the wrong direction. We were heading toward a really bad situation. And if you remember, when I got elected, the stock market dropped and then they heard my speech, and it dropped. And then it went up more than it dropped. It went down like 800 points, and then it went up a lot -- whatever it was, much more than that. And then since then, its gone --
How much?
No, 25 since the election. You have to go since the election.""
Since election day its 25%. It has gone up since the Election Day $5.2 trillion -- $5.2 trillion. If Hillary Clinton would have won, the markets would have gone down substantially. Instead of $5.2 trillion. It was interesting, I just saw the number today, $5.2 trillion. It was just announced that since election day, November 8, the markets have gone up $5.2 trillion dollars. Theyve gone up 25%. Because the Nasdaq was 26, et cetera, et cetera.
I have not seen a report. You know, I have, I built, I think the thing that I -- look obviously people know Ive been very successful but I built a truly great company with truly great assets and very little debt, and I dont think thats been recognized to the extent it should. And I dont care about it so much anymore because this is -- you know, Im here.
You know what? He may be doing quarterly reports. I havent seen any yet. I know hes, you know, hes doing a very good job because I know the kind of person he is. Hes running it with Don. And theyre doing a very good job, I would imagine. But its very good stuff that theyre running.
Yeah. Yeah, I think so.
You see, you have to understand, if what I do is good for the middle class, thats also good for me, and then if I do whats good for the upper class, thats good for me. Dont forget -- the companies that were talking about -- many people own some of these companies. And sometimes wealthy people own them, and sometimes poor people own them.
But when we make life and business better for companies, thats a great thing for everybody, including me... . But people are dying to know if I have any benefit.
And I ask them, and I tell them, most important, this is a jobs bill. This is a jobs tax cut and reform. Its a tax cut. Its a massive tax cut.
Will be the biggest tax cut in the history of our country. Its a massive tax cut, and its a reform. Its both.
No, because, no, because a tax cut will spur growth.
The growth, the growth will be so much that itll be --
Well, history has also shown the opposite. I mean, youve had it both ways. It has shown both ways.
Well, during Reagan, during Reagan, during his cuts, he -- tremendous growth.
My feeling is that we are losing so much business, and so many companies are leaving our country, and so many companies are doing so badly. Look at our steel industry. Look whats happening with our steel industry. Now Im going to give them additional help, as youll see later from economic development plans, because were not going to let these industries be taken advantage of by the other countries.
What has happened and what will be happening is not only will we have massive tax cuts and reform. Not only will we have the largest regulation cuts in the history of a presidency -- there has never been a president who has cut regulations anywhere even close, and Im not nearly finished. You know the ones Ive done.
And Im actually doing one next week, which will be massive. But weve cut. Now, I believe in regulation, by the way, but its got to be reasonable regulation. It cant take 21 years to build a highway --
-- to get approved.
It cant take, to put up a structure someplace, 15 years before you find out that youre not allowed to build it. You know, thats whats been happening. You saw what I did with Keystone Pipeline, the Dakota Access Pipeline, approved within 24 hours -- approved. In fact, the one is now built, and the other ones under construction. Forty-eight thousand jobs.
Now were going to have massive growth. Were going to have massive job production. We are going to, I think very, very importantly, help the companies because Im going to be following this up with a bill that makes it more fair for our companies. One of the unfair, probably the -- I wont even say the worst aspect, but one of the bad aspects -- was taxes, but we have worse because some countries treat our companies so unfairly that it is almost impossible for them to compete.
And we will be straightening that out in a different bill which will be coming, which Ive never really discussed publicly very much, but which will be coming fairly soon after the tax cuts... . We have cut, we have cut regulations, or deregulation, but we have cut regulations more than any president ever in history, and its not even close, and this is only nine months. And theres more coming. I dont know if you saw when I held up that highway chart a few months ago.
Where it took anywhere from 17 to 21 years. We have highways that have been under negotiation for decades. Roads, bridges -- you know you cant build. Those days are over. Were trying to get it down to a maximum of 2 years, so that instead of 20 itll be a maximum of 2. And, by the way, they may not get approved. But if they dont get approved, youre going to know fast. Youre not going to be going 20 years and then find out you cant build.
Well, I think you have different kinds of talent. I have some that is terrific, that is unknown to the public for the most part, that has been incredible.
Ive had a lot. I hate to point them out because then when I dont point somebody out theyre disappointed. And then I have had some that Ive been disappointed in. Ive had some that I thought would be very good that Im not as happy as I thought. But Ive had some --
-- Ive had some disappointments. Excuse me?
Well, I dont want to use examples now, but Ive had some that Im not, that I havent been happy with and that frankly right now Im not that thrilled with. I was disappointed. I thought theyd be better. And Ive had some that turned out better than I thought.
You never know when to fire. You can meet somebody, and you can see somebody sitting in front of you, and you can even look at their record to a certain extent. Dont forget one of your early questions is: How does this compare with the business? Well, it is a different set of skills. You need more skill for this. And you need more heart. You also need more heart. Because a lot of your decisions here are based on whats good for people, not just whats good for the budget or whats good for the pocketbook.
But, so it is, there are tremendous skill sets from the world of business that are great. But you need additional skill. You also need political skill --
And you need political instinct. People in business, many people in business have no political instinct, or you dont know if they do. But Ive had people that Im extremely pleased with, that I actually think have been better than I would have thought. And Ive had some -- I mean for the most part I got it right -- but Ive had some that Im disappointed. Ive had some that Im still disappointed.
Yeah, I think its positive. I think people understand it. Thats the way life is, sure.
He came out of a great company. A company that has been around a long time. I dont mind opposing views, but he and I have some opposing views. I think we have to be a much, much stronger in stance. And, ultimately, my view matters. Thats the way life goes. But I have a very good relationship with him. And generally speaking, we get along very well.
Well, we may have to, if he did that -- which he says he didnt, by the way, he said he didnt. And they announced with the State Department that he didnt. I think its fake news, but if he did that, I guess well have to compare IQ tests. And I can tell you who is going to win.
But so does everyone else.
Well, one of the biggest advantages that I have, that somebody like me has, is that I was not in politics, so I havent gotten to know Washington for 30 years. I dont know everybody here. Ive had to make new relationships. So thats --
No, in some cases it wasnt a mistake. It might just be a different style. But overall I think Ive got it right, and I think that theres always a lot of turnover, especially in the early years of a White House. But overall, I think I have a great group of people.
What time is it, 12:30? Thats all right. Feel free.
No, no, no, its not taking me longer.
Its taking the obstructionist people.
Thats because I dont need as many people. And that has to do with business also. And Ive said that loud and clear, but nobody wants to write it.
Im generally not going to make a lot of the appointments that would normally be -- because you dont need them. I mean, you look at some of these agencies, how massive they are, and its totally unnecessary. They have hundreds of thousands of people. And you look at -- so the appointments, Ive made some great appointments. You take a look at the appointments weve made.
But two things that nobody mentions that I think are very important: judges. I have many, many judges in the pipeline. Already weve had approved a number. Federal judges. Im not just talking about Justice Gorsuch, Supreme Court, Im talking about many federal judges. And I will have approximately 145 federal judges. Im getting praised -- right, I mean, are you disputing that? Its approximately 145. That doesnt include the court-of-appeals judges, which will be about 17.
So weve had a tremendous amount of judges. Many are in the pipeline, and were being praised for the quality of the people were putting on the court system. Thats a very big factor. In addition, so if you look already in nine months, numerous judges have already been approved. Many are in the pipeline. Others are now, as we speak, being chosen. And our system is working very, very well. We will have made a stamp on the court system the likes of which I dont think anybody has ever been able to do before, because we have so many.
Well, I have friendships, I have relationships. Largely the relationship is where I am -- in other words, now its very much of a Washington relationship. I deal with people here. Its a very fair question. I do like to call friends.
I dont have much time, believe it or not. I am definitely a working president. I come in early. I start very early. Today Ive already spoken to the head of France and the head of other countries. And you know, I mean, this is very much of a, in fact I have my actual working desk inside. This looks very nice, dont let that fool you. But more family, I think, than anything else. Plus I have some very good friendships in business. And I do like to get opinions. I am somebody that very much accepts opinions from people that I know understand whats going on in the world.
Its a lonely position, because the decisions are so grave, so big. If its a big -- like, if you buy airplanes, its tens of billions of dollars. Its not like youre buying a plane. Its hundreds of billions of dollars. But thats not -- the decision I made on Syria, for example, going in and firing 59 rockets, missiles, into Syria.
When I had to give the go-ahead for that, thats a very hard decision to make. You dont know. Every one of them hit their target with incredible technology -- Tomahawks in that case, but incredible technology. And I was actually sitting with the president of China at the time, having dessert in Florida, at Mar-a-Lago.
But you know those decisions are tough decisions. Its lonely. And you have to make them yourself. And the military is -- we have the greatest military. And by the way, our military is getting so much stronger, so much better. And rapidly. But I will tell you, you make those decisions all by yourself.
No, nothing prepares you for that. Nothing prepares you for -- when you send missiles, that means people are going to die. And nothing really prepares you for that.
Theres not that much room left. Theres not that much room left. Look, this should have been taken care of by four or five previous administrations. It certainly should have been taken care of over the last eight years. And every year makes it a more difficult situation. And right now, I mean President Obama told me -- sitting right there, the two of us.
He said that the previous -- in the meeting we had prior to my coming into the White House -- he said that was his toughest decision. But I said, but you didnt make a decision, because you didnt do anything. You let it go on. I just, I feel strongly you cannot allow him to have nuclear weapons.
He was wasting his time.
Well, Im not undermining. I think Im actually strengthening authority. But in the case of North Korea, they have been talking for 25 years. Obviously, that doesnt work.
TPP, Im very proud of the fact that --
Yes.
No.
Well, TPP was not a signed deal. It would have been a disaster. It would have been a large-scale version of NAFTA, which is a disaster. I inherited the NAFTA. Its a disaster for this country.
No. You take a look at your car manufacturing plants, go down to Mexico.
Five more minutes. If you take a look at your car manufacturing plants, Randall, NAFTA has been a disaster for manufacturing in this country. We have lost so much of our car business to Mexico. NAFTA is a disaster as a deal. Now were renegotiating it. I happen to think that NAFTA will have to be terminated if were going to make it good.
Otherwise, I believe you cant negotiate a good deal. Its a terrible deal for our country. Its been a terrible deal. It was a mistake. TPP would have been a large-scale version of NAFTA. It would have been a disaster. Its a great honor to have -- I consider that a great accomplishment, stopping that. And there are many people that agree with me. I like bilateral deals.
We would have gone into a hornets nest. No, no, but you can have it this way and do much more business. And if it doesnt work out with a country, you give them a 30-day notice, and you either renegotiate or not. But TPP would have been a disaster for the country.
Well, lets look at it differently. I also took things and made them happen that werent going to happen, like the big pipeline deals. Those were deals that were not going to happen -- 48,000 jobs. Those were deals that were not going to happen that I made happen, and I made them happen immediately.
For me, its America first. Weve been doing that so long that we owe $20 trillion, okay? Its America first. We have to build up our country. I got elected. Its called Make America Great Again. We have debt. We have deals going. I mean, the deal we made, as an example, the trade deal we made with South Korea, is a terrible deal. Were renegotiating it. Its a terrible deal, and were renegotiating that deal right now.
At the same time, were helping them militarily. But they have to treat us fairly, and other countries have to treat us fairly. As an example, we defend Saudi Arabia. Im very good friends with many of the people in Saudi Arabia, including the king. I have great respect. Saudi Arabia is a very wealthy country. Why are we defending them, and not being properly taken care of economically?
It doesnt make sense. Nobody ever thought of it. There are many countries that are extremely wealthy that we defend. Why are we defending them, and spending money to defend them, and theyre not reimbursing us properly and fully? And Im doing that. At the same time, we will have better relationships than we have right now. You know, I have very good relationships with the leaders of countries.
Well, they just announced that there was no vote change, number one.
They just said there was no change in vote. They just said that. They also just said that there has been absolutely no collusion. They just said that. Yesterday. Two days ago. Senate. There has been no collusion. I didnt speak to Russians. Everyone knows that that was just a statement put out by the Democrats so that they could have an excuse for losing an election that in theory they should have won because its very easy for the Democrats to win the electoral college.
And not only didnt they win, it was 306 to -- what was it? -- 223, if you could get the right number. It was 306 to 223. That was an excuse for the Democrats not winning the election.
It would bother me greatly if thats the case. It would bother me greatly. And I look forward to seeing what the final reports are. And hopefully theyll come out soon, so if there are suggestions, we can do those suggestions prior to the 18 election. But it has been taking so long, all of the various studies and reports, but I would like to see what everybody comes up with, so that we can, if theres something to do with respect to the 18 elections, which are right around the corner, well have time to do it.
Dont forget, we have those elections now in about a year. Theres not that much time. So I would like to see that, because I dont want Russia messing with our elections, nor do I want anybody or any other country messing with our elections, thats for sure.
Well, Ive gotten very high marks for the hurricanes. And I think I really feel that the reason is because of what Ive done, to a certain extent, in business. We mobilized. I put some excellent people in charge of FEMA. We have some excellent people that I worked with. We had fast mobilization. We had mobilization before the hurricanes even hit, which other people didnt do.
You probably noticed that in terms of signing emergency orders, they were signed immediately as opposed to waiting for long, long periods of time, and then, by that time, it was too late. And you had catastrophes that had lasting damage. I think, yeah, I think that there is a natural business instinct for that.
And we worked closely with the governors, and weve had some really great governors to work with. Governor of Texas. The governor of Florida. We have really had some, I think, great relationships, but the mobilization went very, very well. And you look at whats going on in Texas. Theyre rebuilding. Theyre going to be back very soon.
Florida is going to be back, way ahead of schedule. Ive done a very good job in Puerto Rico -- havent been given the same kind of credit, but if you speak to the governor of Puerto Rico and other representatives, youll see that they were thrilled. Virgin Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands -- people dont even talk about it, but the governor of the Virgin Islands, Governor Mapp, gave us an A+
He said the job weve done has been incredible. He said that yesterday, very officially. Governor Mapp. Kenneth Mapp, terrific guy. But yeah, weve gotten very high marks for that. Then we had the tragedy in Las Vegas, which is a whole different thing. That was a very, very sad occurrence. I was there. I was in the hospitals. I met some incredible people, though horribly wounded. They were horribly wounded. But it, in one sense, taught me how great our country is, the fact that they can get back on their feet so quickly
Yeah. We have some great -- the people of this country are just great. I mean, more than anything else, all of the hurricanes, the Las Vegas tragedy, it teaches me how great the people of our country are.
Oh, were going to look at that very closely. This has just come up. And were going to take a look at that very closely.
I have about 330 million bosses.
It doesnt change, because all I want to do is the right thing. Youll see that Ill make decisions that arent politically popular, but theyre the right thing to do. So I do have all 330 million bosses, but it doesnt matter, because Im going to do the right thing.
I think thats another thing that maybe youll do more as a businessperson than you would as a politician. A politician is going to do the politically correct thing. Im going to do the right thing for the country.
Thank you very much.
