Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Sandown, NH|October 6, 2016
Is that mic working? Its like the presidential debate, the commission where they gave us a bum mic. Some commission that is. So, I want to thank everybody. This is great.
You know, New Hampshire -- we won New Hampshire in the primaries big league. Far exceeding the numbers that everybody thought and now I hear were winning by one and tied and winning by two and tied in another one. How are you? So, I just want to thank everybody. This is great to be with you.
So these just came out. Remember whenever we won I like to talk about polls. If were doing badly, I dont talk about polls. No, its true.
When we do badly, I dont know about polls, right. But when were doing well I know about polls. I used to drive -- Chris Christie is here, our friend. Where is Chris? Right over here. Applause] And he was a tough competitor and he said, you used to drive me crazy when you talk about the polls. Why did you talk about the polls? I said because I was number one. But if I was number two or something, we wouldnt be talking. But, first of all, thank you everyone.
And New Hampshire was where we had our first victory. You remember that, right.  And then we went on to lots of other places -- lots of other places. And we had tremendous support from so many of our friends and tremendous complements.
Tom Brady and Coach Belichick and so many people we just have great relationships with and great relationships up here. So, these just came out, just literally came out. Rasmussen, thats national polls, Trump 43, Clinton, 41.  Los Angeles Times, national, great polls supposedly.
Well, thats because Im leading.  Trump, 46 national, Clinton, 42.  UPI national, Trump 49, Clinton 47. Reuters Ipsos, South Carolina, Trump 49, Clinton 44.
South Carolina is great. That is where we had another great -- had another great attendance. The results in South Carolina during the primary were amazing and it was fantastic. Great people.
Colorado, Trump 45, Clinton 43. I just left, that was a good one.  And Wisconsin, where Im going tomorrow -- Wisconsin they have Trump at 42 and Clinton at 42, and thats OK because I was about 15 points behind three or four weeks ago, I think, right?  So, whatd I tell you? So, thats one. All right, anybody can check them.
You can check them. Now heres one thats a biggie, UPI just came out like a little while ago. Virginia, I love the Virginia. Tremendous properties in Virginia, a lot of employees.
I think all my employees are voting, I tell you. Virginia, Trump 50, Clinton 45.  UPI -- UPI, thats a big one -- thats big one. Its a little surprise.
Look at the media, theyre going crazy. They dont know whats happened. They dont know, they cant believe this. They are not happy, I want to tell you.
This is not the way its supposed to be happening.  The American people, right. This is not -- this is not what they had in mind. The crooked, media with the crooked Hillary.
New Hampshire, 48-48. Whats wrong? Whats going on here? New Hampshire, 48-48. I dont like that. That does not sound like my friends from.
Were going to win New Hampshire. Were going to win New Hampshire.  These all just came out a little while ago. Arizona, 52, Clinton, 42.
Wow, up by 10. Heres a good one, North Carolina, UPI -- North Carolina, Trump 50, Clinton, 46. Whoa! Look at this one. The state of Pennsylvania where I went to school, went to college, Pennsylvania, Trump 50, Clinton, 46. Applause] And heres another good one, great state, I love the people of Georgia. Trump, 52, Clinton, 43. Wow you send it back to the press so they can examine it.  So, I just want to thank you very much, its really amazing, and I want to thank Chris for being here, and all of my friends.
So many -- Steve I see over here and all of the friends that I have, its been incredible. And you know, I wanted to be here because we have lots of energy and we love the people. And we love the people, in particular because it was my first day it meant so much for me. And I use to come up -- thank you, I feel the same way.
But I used to come up and we used to have meetings with people and they kept talking about heroin, heroin, heroin. I tell the story all over New Hampshire because its so different than these beautiful little valleys and the trees and the lakes and the beautiful roads that we just rode over, and you talk about heroin and it doesnt work. It just sort of -- it doesnt seem right, but its a tremendous problem here and its a tremendous problem all over the country. And were going to close up that border, were going to build a wall.
You know, we got the ICE endorsement just yesterday. ICE, great people.  And we got the Border Patrol endorsement and the Border Patrol agents endorsed 16,500. And Sheriff Joe endorsed us -- Sheriff Joe -- tough.
Sheriff Joe is tough and good. But getting ICE yesterday was a tremendous thing for us. So, I just want to make a quick remark and then well start with Howie, and I know its very hot in here and we want to keep this small. And by the way, they were saying this is practice this Sunday.
This is isnt practice. This has nothing to do with Sunday. Were are just here because we just wanted to be here. And you know, Hillary, frankly, they talk about debate prep.
Its not debate prep, shes resting, shes resting.  And I want to be with the American people. I want to be with the people from New Hampshire, and she wants to rest.  Debate prep.
Tonight well discuss many issues of great importance to New Hampshire and few states in America have been hurt worse by the trade policies of my opponent, and you know that. NAFTA has been a disaster, signed by her husband. And youve lost nearly one in three jobs, think of it. I mean, think of it, one in three jobs since NAFTA and China made deals.
We made deals with China, World Trade Organizations, what a disaster that was, supported by Hillary Clinton. But the NAFTA deal signed by her husband, although he did a great thing two days ago when he was willing to say how bad Obamacare was. That was crazy.  That was pretty good.
The open border policies, and I just wrote this out but I feel its so important, the open border policies of Hillary Clinton including catch and release, another terrible practice, have allowed a massive influx of drugs into New Hampshire and frankly, into states all over our country -- almost every state. And its really fueled the tremendous heroin and drug crisis that we have. Were going to close up those borders folks, believe me, and I promise that to you, in New Hampshire more than anything else, I said and I talk about it no matter where I go when I mentioned this state. Because it was really the first glimpse I got of how serious a problem we have.
Theyre poisoning our youth, theyre poisoning more than our youth. Theyre poisoning everybody. But they are poisoning our youth. Its tough enough out there.
Our youth that doesnt have a chance with whats happening and were not going to let it happen anymore. And were going to help the people that are so badly addicted. Were going to help them.  So, Im going to bring your jobs back -- jobs are leaving like youve never seen before, record levels.
Im going to stop the drugs from coming in. Im going to create school choice and were going to get rid of common core, which is a disaster.  And were going to create something very special for every disadvantaged child in this country of which, we have far too many. We are going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Applause] Which Bill admitted this week is a crazy system. Could you believe that? Hey, at least hes honest. Boy, has he suffered. Can you imagine?  Can you imagine that? Has he suffered? But he said its a crazy system that doesnt make sense and doesnt work, and where people end up with premiums doubled and coverage cut in half.
I couldnt have said it better myself. Ive been saying it -- hey, Ive been saying it for two years, longer. I know, Im going to put him on the campaign. Oh, Im sure -- do you think anybody has called him and said lets recheck? He did a minor retraction, but you can see he was unhappy about it.
Remember Jonathan Gruber. Do we remember the name? I dont ever forget. Jonathan Gruber the architect of the bill admitted it was sold on lies. Remember that? He thought he was talking to his friend.
Unfortunately, hes friend turned out not to be such a good friend because his friend had a little cell phone -- those cell phones are brutal, just like e-mails are brutal unless you want to delete them all.  Unless you delete about 33,000.  But Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare admitted it was sold on lies, and talked about the stupidity of the American voter, right? Remember that, the stupidity of the American voter? The only stupidity was that the politicians, who ignored the American people and forced this thing, absolutely forced it down their throats and Hillary Clinton wants to double down. She wants to make it even worse.
I mean, thats ultimately whats going to happen. And me, youve seen what were going to do. In a much, much better health care at a much lower price and people are going to be very happy, extremely happy. And were going to take care of those that are disadvantaged and cant afford to do what others can afford to do.
But youre going to be spending -- and were going to take care of them better than theyre being taken care of now. But youre going to have health care that works, youre going to have health care where companies compete to get your business, and theyll come up with plans that you havent even seen or thought about right now. It will be a beautiful thing to see. And Im sure well be talking about it on Sunday night during the debate because theres no way well lose this issue.
Its a disaster. Obamacare is a disaster.  Were going to create a more honest government, our government is a disaster. How about the $1.7 billion in cash that was given to Iran? Cash.
Remember it was going to be $400 million, turned out to be $1.7 billion in cash. You know what that is? Thats more than this room. You would put it probably in hundreds, although it was all different currencies from different nationalities. Maybe they didnt want American dollars. Laughter] They said, anybody so stupid to make a deal like this, we dont want their money. But can you imagine this, these people? They never saw anything like it. And by the way, thats not going to fight terror. They got plenty of money that theyll use.
Thats going to their Swiss bank accounts, OK, just in case you had any questions, all right. Anyway, we gave it to them, and boy, did we give it to them. So, I want to let you know that we are going to be a country thats going to be run properly and Im going to be -- by the time this finishes, Ill be in for tremendous amounts of money, tremendous amounts of money that I fund myself. We also have a lot of wonderful people, in terms of small donations and thats coming in fantastically.
We have some people that just feel very good about our country under proper leadership. But were spending a lot of money and were doing it ourselves and were very proud of it. Were going to be very proud of our country, and when people call up to ask for certain favors that are bad for the country but good for them -- the nice part I dont even have to take their phone call. I dont need them.
I dont have to take their phone call.  Before we go any further, I want to send our thoughts and hearts with all of the people, and prayers, to the millions in the path of whats now known as Hurricane Matthew. It looks like its a big one and its going to be a bad one it looks like. Hopefully it takes that right turn, but it looks like its going the opposite direction, not good.
Its one of the strongest storms to hit in many decades, and our neighbors in Florida, Georgia and the Carolinas are in a direct path, it seems. Southeast Florida is taking the brunt. We have a lot of friends in Florida, a lot of buildings, a lot of investments in Florida. A lot of great employees in Florida.
Southeast Florida is taking the brunt of the storm. To all of my friends in Florida, please know we are praying for you and everyone in the path, you got to take care of yourself. Youve got to get out of the area. Youve got to listen.
You have a great governor, Governor Scott, and you got to listen because it could be a really, really bad one. So, its going to be a rough couple of days and maybe beyond that but well see what the path ultimately is. Weve seen the damage throughout the Caribbean and Cuba, the Bahamas, Haiti and others. In fact, they say in Haiti, almost 270 people -- they think around 270 have already been killed by this terrible storm.
So, to the folks in Haiti and all over, were going to be helping you. Well be with you and we send our best wishes and prayers. We have a tremendous problem that I think is brewing right now as we speak here. So, well know in about four or five hours.
I just spoke to Rick Scott and Governor Christie just spoke to Rick Scott and it looks like four or five hours away so, well know. But whatever happens, were with everybody because it looks like its going to be a very bad one, maybe the worst in a long period of time. OK, with that, Howie Carr has been amazing. Hes been very -- I dont know if hes allowed support but he sounds like he supports me a lot. Applause] Im not sure if hes allowed to.  Im not sure hes allowed to but I think probably. But he certainly been amazing, and hes a very talented guy and hes a terrific guy with a terrific family. So when we came up and a lot of people wanted us to do this, we said lets get Howie. So, Howie, lets got. You have some questions.
I do and I have a clock down on the floor there that says two minutes.
OK.
Now, if you want me to call you when it goes over two minutes like...
Ill tell you what, Ill make a you a deal. If Im doing well, dont call me. If Im answering the question poorly, please call me immediately. In fact you can go...
OK.
You could go in 30 seconds, you could do it, all right.
All right.
All right.
All right.
OK, got it.
OK, the first question -- some of these I have the names and if I have the name Ill just ask the person to stand up. This is Matthew in Bedford, New Hampshire. Matthew.
Where is Matthew?
Matthew here.
Hi Matthew.
OK, Matthew says after the first debate, the media and even some within the party suggested that you should have gone after Hillary more. Did you hold back, and do you plan on criticizing her more this weekend?
Yeah, I did hold back. I thought it was just inappropriate to say what I was really thinking I would say. And I held back I think for good reason -- I think for good reason. Id much rather have it be on policy and I didnt like getting into the gutter and so I did hold back. I also, I mean honestly, this was, you know, the commission, the so-called commission on presidential debates. Give me a break. Did you see where they came from? One of them comes from the Hillary camp, the head person.
Hows your microphone work?
Well, this microphone is wonderful.  But I had a problem with the mic. We had a guy inside the room oscillating my mic. Was it that the mic didnt work? And you know its interesting, I went there a little bit before and I said, boy, the mic the is so great.
Unfortunately when I went to talk they turn the mic up and down. And you saw it -- everybody in the room saw it so we had a real problem. And the head of the debate said, youre right it was a serious problem -- told this to Mayor Giuliani. It was a serious problem after the debate, an hour and a half.
He said, and now that the debate is over Im going backstage to find out what was wrong. And I said, great that helped.  But I felt that -- I really felt that I wanted to keep it on as higher level as possible. Lets see what happens.
I mean, lets see what happens. I think were all better off if we can do that because it is about issues, it is about policies.
You kept it at a minute twenty.
Good.
What do you see is the biggest foreign-policy failures of the last 15 years?
Wow. Do we have about 24 hours to talk about this? Look, weve had failures at every level. Weve had failures -- I think the Iran deal is one of the worst deals Ive ever seen, OK. Its going to lead to nuclear weapons.
I was with Bibi Netanyahu the other day and we talked and we talked about it, and not to reveal what he said, but I will tell you, I can tell you what I said. This is horrible for Israel. Its horrible for our country. Its a horrible deal because over a period of time, over a short period of time, it leads to -- within 10 years theres going to be some of them, then theyre going to end up with nuclear weapons and they have like a path.
On top of it, we gave them back $150 billion. We obviously paid ransom for our hostages, obviously, and Obama said this had nothing to do -- well, why did they delay it until all this money came in? But most importantly, its just a bad deal, and Im all for this because I happen to think that nuclear is just about the biggest problem that we have in the world today. I think its one of -- you know, Obama thinks its global warming. I think it is nuclear in the hands of the wrong players.
This is devastating. There is no winner. Theres never going to be a winner with nuclear, believe me. And so I think deals are fine, but they have to be good deals.
The deal made by Secretary Kerry -- never left the table -- he just agreed, agreed, agreed. Hed want something then says no and hed agree. So sad but there is one example of a just horrible, horrible thing. We should never have gone into Iraq -- we should have never gone into Iraq.
But of equal importance or most equal importance is the way we got out. Obama took us out with Hillary Clinton, create this incredible vacuum. ISIS was formed, a lot of different problems happened and totally destabilized. You know, the surge, whether you are in favor of going in or not, the surge really did work.
Then all of a sudden, boom. And not only that, we announced always were leaving here, were leaving them, how about Mosul? Did you see Mosul where they announced yesterday -- Im seeing all about were going to attack Mosul -- were going to attack Mosul. I mean, why do they say that? Now, a lot of the bad hombres are in Mosul. The leaders of ISIS -- they think.
But theyre not there anymore because they say, hey wait a minute, theyre going to attack, lets go someplace else.  Isnt there an element of surprise? Remember when we were young and we were studying history and they would talk about some of the great generals and great attacks and was called the element of surprise. Wouldnt it be nice if we attacked first and talked about our great victory later? Now, you know, seriously whos going to...  Its almost like theyre wasting their time attacking Mosul because everyone that we want is going to be gone.
Youre going to have all civilians and therell be tremendous death and carnage, but the people that we want, theyre going to say, hey -- which are the leaders -- get the hell out of here. Its a very, very sad thing. We are being run by people that are incompetent, I will tell you that.
Is Charlene from Sanbornton around? Is she here?
Charlene. Hi.
Here we go.
How are you?
Charlene says, Mr. Trump, Im an eighth generation American of Hispanic decent. I live in New Hampshire and California. You have my vote. I want to help other Hispanics see the truth. And then she talks about how with the current administration is the border security sanctuary city or increasing drugs and crime. She says -- Charlene says, what would you say to convince Hispanics who are deceived by Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton and the biased media to vote for you?
Well, first of all thank you very much and I appreciate it. Interestingly I was listening the other day. There was a gentleman who owns a big radio station, Hispanics mostly -- all Hispanic callers, and he was arguing with one of the hosts. He said, no, you dont understand, the people that are calling in, Hispanics, they love Trump.
Theyre all for Trump. And he said, I was even surprised but now Im for Trump also. You know, I mean, this is happening more and more. I just got back from Las Vegas where we gave a tremendous -- I mean, we had a tremendous crowd of people.
A lot of Hispanics -- Latinos, they like to be called in that area, you know that, right, Hispanics and Latinos. But we had tremendous response and just tremendous -- it was an outpouring of love. And you know, people that are here legally, they dont want people coming across the border illegally taking their jobs, taking their homes, taking whatever they want to take. And we want people to come in now.
I want people to come in to our country so bad, but they have to come in legally. You know, we have a country and we have laws. We have a border. And if you dont have a border, you dont have a country.
But I think the biggest surprise, two big surprises -- were going to do great with African-American. You look at whats happening with inner cities, its a disgrace. And the Democrats have been running them for up to 100 years unbroken. And the African-Americans, believe me, I think were doing -- and you see how the numbers are changing.
One thing they dont have a lot of confidence in Hillary Clinton, shes lied to them for years, she doesnt produce, she just doesnt produce. But I think were going to do great with the African-Americans. You look at the poverty in the inner cities. You look at the crime in the inner cities. You look at the education -- and there are no jobs -- and we are going to do fantastic with the Hispanics. I believe that.
Doing well. Doing well.
Were keeping it down right.
Karen Whitaker, from here in Sandown, here in Sandown, Karen.
Hi, Karen. Thank you. Thank you. I like this audience. I like this audience.
How do you define the income range for middle-class? It cannot be based on where you live because the U.S. tax codes do not discriminate based on geography.
Well, look, the way I look at it, the middle-class has been forgotten in this country. Taxes are too high, jobs have been taken away from you, a lot of our companies -- a lot of great companies have left our country. They have gone to Mexico and other places. China is making so much of our product, we dont make any product anymore anywhere near like we used to. And I will tell you, such a great question, because our middle-class has been treated so badly by the politicians.
I mean, just like forgotten. And we are lowering taxes, as you know, way down for the middle class. Were changing the tax structure completely. We had seven brackets, now we have three. And we are bringing it down actually for those making not a lot at zero. And we dont want them to send in because thats huge bureaucratically and extremely costly, but we are bringing the rates down to numbers that are much lower.
You have seen the numbers, much lower. And youre going to have a much lower tax base. Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes way up. I dont even know what shes thinking. We are already the highest taxed nation in the world. Just about, they can maybe find every once a while, theyll fact check me.
Well, now theres a nation that you never heard of. We are slightly higher -- we are just about of the industrialized nations, were the highest taxpayers in the world. Were the highest taxed nation in the world. Our business taxes are going to be brought from 35 percent to 15 percent. Were cutting regulations which are -- we want regulation for environmental. We want regulation for safety. But the regulations are massive, Howie, their massive. And were cutting the regulations at a tremendous clip and I would say 70 percent of the regulations can go. Its just stopping businesses from growing. And I think youre going to see a tremendous change in this country. Were going to see jobs come back. Were going to see companies come back into our country. And right now theyre just leaving. Its a one-way street out. We have a one-way street right out of the country and they are going largely to Mexico and other places, but Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world. I tell this story a lot, I have a friend who builds plants and he builds these massive plants and he says Donald, you have to see whats going on in Mexico.
I said, how about our country? He goes, not so much. Were going to switch that around a little bit and well get along great with Mexico by the way. But weve got to switch that around. Its been a one-way highway out of the United States.
Is Capa See in Londonderry here? Capa? I recently graduated Magna Cum Laude with a B.S. in chemistry and Im having a lot of trouble finding a job. Whats your plan to bring jobs back to America?
Well, thats the biggest problem and that takes place with so many. And even though its over 100 degrees in this room, I dont feel it, but you know, this room was not meant for this many people, you do know that, right. I heard the other night, I was making a speech and we had tremendous, massive crowds and it was really hot. So, Im a little warm and there mightve been a little bit of sweat and one of these dishonest people said Donald Trump was sweating.
And I said, sweating? It was 100 degrees.
And guess what, were all sweating tonight also, right? But thats OK. Thats good. Thats healthy. The biggest problem you have is people got to college, I mean, thats great getting out now, thats fantastic. That means real smart. But people go to college, they borrow money, theyre up to here. Theyre up to their neck in debt. And then they get out and they cant get a job. I mean, its such a massive problem. They cant get a job because our really good jobs are gone, and theyve gone to other countries. And so many other countries are making our product.
I want to see the day when you can get those great marks and that incredible profession, which you love probably, or you wouldnt have been so high up in the class, right, at the top? But I want to see the day when we can have those jobs back in this country at the highest level. I want to see the day when Apple will make their iPhones in this country, instead of making them in China, in Vietnam, and all over the place, OK.
And believe me, if Im president thats going to happen. And I use Apple as an example but in all fairness, Apple makes all this products all over the place, theyre not making them here, mostly in China, now Vietnam which is becoming very strong for this. Theyre going to start making them here. Theyre going to start making them here. We have the most people. We have the most unbelievable people. If I learned one thing in going around, we started on June 16th of last year and Ive gotten to know the people and we have by far the biggest rallies that people have seen, far bigger than Bernie, and he was second -- but far bigger.
Not that Bernies arent so big, by the way -- theyre very small. Bernie made a big mistake by the way. Bernie Sanders would have been legendary if he didnt make a deal with the devil. When he made that deal, his stock went way down, it went way down. I mean honestly, even as somebody that is, you know, disagrees with him on a lot of things, other than trade, we agree very much on trade, very, very much on trade, except I will do things about it because I like free trade but I want to make a great deal in free trade.
But he was right on trade because our country is being ripped off of jobs and everything. But were going to have a country that makes product again. Were going to have a country that Apple and these other great companies are going to make their product in our country, and were going to have lots of people working, including yourself. We have to do that. OK? Thank you.
Is Bob Swanson here? Bob Swanson?
Hi Bob.
Its one of my favorite questions. When you become president, can you assure the American people that you are going to clean House from the top, at the FBI, Justice Department, State Department, and the V.A. and in what order would you start?
Well, I guess well be talking about this for a while to come, but I have to tell you its one of the saddest things Ive ever seen happen to our country. Whats happened with Hillary Clinton, where you send e-mails, where they send a subpoena, and they want all of your e-mails, I mean, if youre in private business and you do what she did, it is called the , OK. The United States Congress -- Congress sends a subpoena wanting e-mails and she gets the subpoena and she deletes 33,000 e-mails, and many other things including lying all over the place.
And you see people who have suffered greatly, including General Petraeus for doing a tiny fraction of what she did. Thats only -- we cant stay here all night and talk about it, but the lies she told to Congress -- the lies she told to the people -- but the lie she told to Congress. And then you see the FBI give her a no tape, no anything, no swearing in. I believe they said no swearing -- you dont have to even swear in. And they questioned her on the 4th of July, and then they released their finding on Labor Day, right before Labor Day when everyone is gone. Theyre gone here, theyre gone there. I think whats happened with respect to, because I have such respect for the people in the FBI and I have such incredible respect for the FBI. Whats happened to the FBI and to the Justice Department at the highest level, honestly, I think its one of the saddest things Ive ever seen in this country. Whether we like it or dont like it, to look at whats happened and to look at the way thats been handled, and you know, every time I speak, this is mentioned as subject and the people are going crazy. The people of this country are very, very angry -- very, very, angry.
And I would think, I dont know this, but I would think that some of these great FBI agents and the people that work within the FBI, I would imagine they are just furious as to what has happened to the reputation of the FBI. So, I mean, I think it is an amazing question. Honestly, its like we are a third world country. It is one of the saddest things that I have ever seen happen in this country, and it happened to justice and thats probably I guess the way you feel also? Yes, it is very sad.
We have some quick follow up, what would you do with Comey?
I just am very disappointed. I mean, you know, when he read the charges and hes going one, two, three, four, and Im saying, wow, theyre going to do the right thing. And then, he goes, essentially, however, it was, I mean, it was amazing -- it was amazing. To go after point after point, and that was only a few of them. So, it is very disappointing. Its very disappointing.
Sharon Osbourne from Auburn? Sharon? Sharon? For the conservative holdouts, Mr. Trump, who are not on the Trump bandwagon yet, what can you say to convince them that your support for traditional conservative issues of free markets, the Bill of Rights and the rest of the constitution mean they should endorse you?
Well, you know, we dont have too many Howie. Ill be honest with you. You know, the press likes to report we have some of these long-term people that have done such a bad job. Look at the problem our country is in. I would never use these people and they know that. So then they announce in a group that theyre going over to Hillary, right? You understand, and they announce in the group.
But you know, we have tremendous support, including a couple of your very distinguished folks from New Hampshire who were against me, who are now for me. And you are allowed to announce their names, but we have tremendous support in New Hampshire. One of them was very tough and very smart. Go ahead.
John Sununu.
Thats true. Ive watched him and I said, boy, hes tough.
His son is four points up.
Oh, thats good. Well, thats good because Im -- I mean, I thought it was terrific. I met him the other day and -- father and son -- and I think theyre great people, but he was tough. I tell you what, he was really hunting for Trump. And you know what, I respect for somebody that can go other way. Its not that easy to pivot, as you would say. But I very much appreciate the Sununu family and the fact that they are with me and I am with them, and theyre going to do very well. Hes going to do very well and I see the numbers.
And you know, one of the things that have really happened, they all thought oh, Trump -- because look, Ive never done this but Ive done very well in my life and business and did a lot of good things, but Ive never done this. Saw all of the reports, well, youll take down the senator and youll take down this senator. You know how well the Republicans are doing? I guess there is a gentleman in Illinois thats not doing so well. This guy was actually taking out ads against me. I said, are you sure hes a Republican, maybe hes a Democrat?
And hes not doing well, but hey, thats his problem. I mean, you know, he was not for me. But if you look at -- and that was for political reasons -- but if you look at what is going on, now theyre all talking about -- in fact, the other day I saw very interestingly one of the announcer, you know, Donald Trump is having a very positive effect on these races. The Republicans are going to hold. Theyre doing terrifically well, far better than anyone thought.
And frankly, we are winning states and were going to win some states that would never in a million years -- you know this, be in play. I mean, we have some states like, were doing great in Colorado, and somebody else wouldnt do well. Nobody else would do well. Were doing great. I think were leading Colorado in one of the polls as you know just came out. Were leading Colorado. I just left.
Were leading a lot of places and were doing at least very competitively in a lot of states that absolutely would not be for Republicans. And, you know, one of the funny things, they do the maps, and remember to -- Ive watched the different people that do the maps and theyre very small path. Its tougher for the Republicans, I have to tell you.
But they said theres very small path but I was watching the other day and the same person was saying, wow, this path is getting a lot wider. Doesnt mean they were happy about it, but the path now, there are four different paths, before there was one little one.
Nate Silver.
Well, Nate Silver has been, you know, he didnt predict us in the primary and he had never called a loser before. I mean, you know, hes always been on the right side of what happened, in terms of at least his predictions and he didnt predict me in the primaries and in all fairness, you know, hes never seen me, never spoke to me, never saw what we did. You know, we had 17 very talented people and one by one by one, it was a beautiful sight to watch, wasnt it? Beautiful. And by the way, Howie, those people, most of them endorse me, Ben Carson, Chris Christie, so many of them endorse me and they are great endorsements. Scott Walker has been incredible.
He helped Pence.
He helped Pence too. Mike Pence by the way has been fantastic and he did a great job last night.  He did a great job last night.
That brings me to another question from Lois from Bretwood. Lois?
Thank you, Lois.
Did you really say, Lois asks you, were you upset about Mr. Pences debate success, as John Harwood said?
John Harwood was the worst moderator out of all the debates we had. How many did we have, 11 or 12? He was so bad. This guy knows nothing about me. I was so happy -- and I saw it today that somebody on CNN, the Clinton News Network, who knows nothing about us, you know, they used John King actually. Hes a nice guy. I like him on the maps. He does a good job with the maps. I like them better now than I did a couple months ago because a couple of months ago I had no chance, now all of a sudden that map is getting very red. But John King said...
You know, they always have a source, they always have a source, a source with -- nobody talks to him. Nobody talks because he is like the enemy. Hes like the enemy. But he said, and a few other people said Donald Trump was at first happy and then he was unhappy because Mike Pence did so well. I said, unhappy? Were jumping up and down. He was so good -- and I tell you what, hes a great human being. You cant root against him, you cant.
I was telling Chris Christie, I said, can you imagine these people are saying that I would have loved to, you know, see him not do well because that makes me look better? These people, that is why a guy like John King has stayed in the same position for like, how long has been at CNN? I used to say I think someday hell be an anchor, guess what? He is still doing the maps. But no, I was so happy, I mean, I can give you my word on this. I was so happy that Mike did well and I was rooting him on we were talking all during the day and I was giving him some ideas and we were running things by each other.
And its so disconcerting when you -- even tonight they said Donald Trump is going to New Hampshire to practice for Sunday. This has nothing to do with Sunday. Its like they make you like a child. I love the people of New Hampshire. This was set up a little while ago. They were going to cancel it, and I said why are you going to cancel it? Well, you want a debate prep.
I said, forget debate prep. I mean, give me a break. Do you really think that Hillary Clinton is debate prepping for three or four days? Hillary Clintons is resting, OK. Shes resting. She wants to build up her energy for Sunday night and you know what, thats fine. But the narrative is so foolish. Im here for one reason. I love the people of New Hampshire. I said I was going to be here and Im here. Very simple.
This one is unsigned but its a good question.
Thats trouble.
What advice would you give to young Americans looking to achieve the American dream?
Always go into what you love doing. And you may have parents that are trying to push you one way or another but you know what you love. You have to do what you love. And I say this all the time, I say it in speeches and everything, I mean, I will speak in front of young people because I love doing it and I say always follow your dream. Always go into what you love.
And never, ever quit or give up. Ive seen a lot of people over the years, big people and not so big, usually its not so big because if they quit theyre not going to get so big, but the most successful people Ive ever met are the people that never quit, they never give up. They just dont take no for an answer. So do something that you really love doing because that is not work and never, ever quit or give up. Do one or two more Howie.  Thank you.
I think youve dealt with this one before. Its from Al Baldazaro over there.
Hello, Al.
Stand up Al. Al wants to know...
Al wants to know what youre going do about the V.A. How are you going to make it possible?
Well, the veterans, as Al can tell you and there are a lot of veterans in this room because I recognize some of you and Ive become very close to the vets and a lot of it started with New Hampshire to be honest and Iowa, but I really got close to the vets. And Ill tell you what, in many cases, theyre living in hell. What is going on with the Veterans Administration between the corruption, the long, long waits, 22 suicides a day. I thought that was a typo.
When I heard 22 suicides a day, I said thats impossible. Twenty-two suicides a day. Much of it caused by the fact that they cant get to see doctors. Howie, they wait in line for five and six days and at the end of the six day, the doctor says sorry, you know, Im going on vacation. And actually the Veterans Administration and the vets tell me this, they have some really great doctors, but getting to see them is sometimes almost impossible. We are going to solve finally the problem of the Veterans Administration.
We have illegal immigrants that in many cases are treated better than our great veterans and you know that and everybody knows that. Theyre being treated better than our veterans, and thats not going to happen. One of the things were going to do is the lines are impossible. Getting to see a doctor is in many cases just days and days.
When that circumstance happens, were going to let our veterans go across the street, around the corner, two miles away, and see a doctor, private or a hospital, public or private, where they are looking for work where they have wonderful people and theyre looking for work, take care of their problem and we will pay the bill. And thats going to be the cheapest thing we can do. Its going to be the cheapest thing we can do.
And Al can tell you a lot of the vets that I recognize in the room, they can tell you everybody is in love with the plan. And were going to keep the V.A., but -- were going to keep the Veterans Administration, were going to keep the hospitals, were going to keep the buildings because I think thats important. You know, we have to take care of our vets. These are people that we wouldnt be here if it werent for the vets.
But when theyre waiting in line and they know there is no end in sight, and honestly, theyre dying. They need a simple procedure, they need a prescription, they need something very easy, and they end up dying and its a very sad thing. So, theyre going to be able to go across the street to a public or private hospital, to a doctor, and were going to take care of our vets. For the first time, were really going to take care of our vets, OK.
Is Pete from Nashua here? Pete from Nashua? Pete from Nashua says Hillary Clinton wants to give Social Security and Medicare to illegal immigrants through citizenship. Wont this bankrupt the program?
Well, let me tell you, youve heard that and most people didnt even believe it but thats true. And you know, shes open border. She wants people to just flow through -- look, when the Border Patrol agents, 16,500, and when ICE, when they come up -- and theyve never endorsed a presidential candidate before, but these are great people that want to do their jobs. You know, its much harder for them to do their jobs to just stand back. Right now, its stand back and let them in. Its much and catch and release which is a disaster.
But when they want to do their jobs and its much more difficult and they come out and endorse Trump, whos going to have them do their jobs? And were going to build the wall, and were going to stop things from coming in. Look, were going to stop -- and this was the pledge I made to New Hampshire, more than any other place because this is where I really couldnt believe it.
But I said if I win and I become president, first got the nomination -- that happened -- become president, I promise the people of New Hampshire that we are going to stop this crap from coming into your state 100 percent, 100 percent.
And it can be done, and it can be done even before the wall goes up. The wall is a necessary edge. You know, I asked the patrol, I asked really the ICE folks that endorsed me, and I asked the Border Patrol folks that endorsed me. I said, how important is the wall? And you know, Im so committed to the wall, I was pretty sure they were going to say this, but I wasnt 100 percent, they said Mr. Trump, it is absolutely necessary for us to do our proper job, which made me, you know, gave me a little additional security as far as the wall is concerned.
We need the wall. We have to stop the drugs, heroine, but mainly drugs, but we have to stop the drugs from pouring into our country. And believe me it is poisoning our country and its poisoning our youth. And were going to stop it and were going to stop it fast long before the wall gets up. Were going to start that wall fast. I get them built fast. But I tell you, long before, were going to stop that poison from flowing into our country, OK? One more. Well do another question.
Im going to ask you the kind of question Hillary Clinton gets sometimes. I mean easy here.
She gets easy once.
Thats what I mean.
Do you ever notice, by the way, did you see the difference. Im getting boom, boom, boom, with here, what would you do to fix the economy? Well, of course, thats actually a much tougher question than you would understand, and she doesnt have a clue, but you see the questions I was getting.
Laura from Hampton, New Hampshire, are you here? Thats Laura.
I thought you needed a fun question.
Lets have a fun question.
What is one of your earliest memories as a child and why do you think it stands out, and then she says, go Donald.
Thank you, thank you. I think just the relationship I had with my parents. You know, my father built houses in Brooklyn and Queens and the apartments. And he was a very good negotiator.
Id sit at his knee, and it wasnt that he taught me. He didnt really say, son, you have to learn, but hed be on the telephone negotiating with a plumber or an electrician or a sheet rocker, and I would hear this and Id be playing with blocks at his knee on the floor and Id be listening, and it was always so vivid. And he was always negotiating and you know what, thats what we need in this country because people are running away with our country. You look at whats going on, whether its the border, whether its our depleted military -- the greatest people on earth are military people, but they have old equipment.
You saw the piece they did on many of the networks where they show fighter jets with their 18 years old. Theyre so old that they dont make the parts anymore. These are fighter jets that our people are flying now and they have to go into plane graveyards. They have to go into graveyards to get parts and they have to go into museums to get parts because they dont make the parts anymore.
Now, we need a strong military. We need to protect our Second Amendment. We need to take care of our vets. We need borders. We need great education, getting rid of common core, so important. We need so many things, and by the way, one thing, and I know John Sununu and a lot of other people felt this was so important when they came out so strongly, United States Supreme Court. We need -- we lost a great justice, Justice Scalia. Great justice -- we need great justices, who are going to uphold our Constitution.
And if Hillary Clinton gets in, youre going to have a much different country. So, so many people feel thats so important, I personally feel its one of the most important things. Defense always being we have to defend our country, and we have to stop people coming in from parts of the world where theyre looking to do us harm, believe me. And theyre pouring in and Hillary Clinton wants to have them come in at a rate of 550 percent more than President Obama. Were going to stop it. And you know the statement, We are going to make America great again." And it is going to happen quickly.  So, So, thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
I got one more question for you Donald. Im going to let you read it and remember where you are tonight as you answer this question.
The World Series, you know, look, of is course its Boston.
