Donald Trump|Press Gaggle: Donald Trump Holds an Impromptu Meeting With Press|January 24, 2018
Im... Im looking forward to it, actually.
Heres the story, just so you understand. Theres been no collusion whatsoever. There’s no obstruction whatsoever. And Im looking forward to it. I do worry when I look at all of the things that you people dont report about, with whats happening. If you take a look at, you know, the five months worth of missing texts -- thats a lot of missing texts. And as I said yesterday, thats prime time.
So you do sort of look at that and say, "Whats going on?"" You do look at certain texts where they talk about insurance policies or insurance
So heres the story…
I dont know, no. I guess youre talking about two or three weeks, but I would love to do it.
You know, again, it’s — I have to say — subject to my lawyers and all of that — but I would love to do it.
You mean like Hillary did it under — who said that?
Oh.
Oh you said it. You did say it. You say a lot. Did Hillary do it under oath?
I think you have an idea. Don’t you have an idea?
Wait, wait, wait. Do you not have an idea? Do you really not have an idea?
If you didnt do it... if you didn’t know about Hillary, then you’re not much of a reporter.
Oh, I would do it under oath.
Absolutely.
No I would do it. Well, were going to see... I am very disturbed, as is the general, as is everybody else that is intelligent. When you look at — five months? This is the late great Rose Mary Woods, right? With a step, right? This is a large-scale version.
That was 18 minutes, this is five months. They say its 50,000 texts and its prime time. Thats disturbing. Say hello to your . Good bye everybody. General?
Well, McCabe got more than $500,000 from essentially Hillary Clinton. And is he investigating Hillary Clinton?
Do you remember, did anybody hear many of my speeches when I talked about McCabe? He was the star of my speech. This isnt now. And I said a man who was more or less in charge of her — that, the wife got $500,000 from Terry. Now Terry is Hillary. And, yeah, I mean —
You know what? I keep out of it. Youd find that hard to believe. I keep out of it. Thats the way it fell. Hes been there. Its one of those things. But he was the star of many of my speeches. Because he got from $500,000 to $700,000, whatever the number was. Got that money for the wife. And, you know, in Virginia, in Virginia —
Its very interesting.
Wait. In Virginia, you dont have to spend the money. So I never checked as to whether or not they spent the money on the campaign. How much of the money did he spend on the campaign, do you know — she — how much was it?
Wait, how much of the money was spent?
You know.
I dont think so.
No, I dont think I did.
I dont know whats the big deal with that. Because I would ask you, "Who did you vote for?"" "
I dont think thats a big deal. But I dont remember that. I saw that this morning. I dont remember asking him that question.
I dont remember asking him the question. I think its also a very unimportant question, but I dont remember asking him that.
Hey, chief, would you do me a favor? When we come back, when we come back, I want you to have a deal, OK? See if you could have a deal.
Yeah, nice — and, not — you dont repeat, and this and that, just one nice piece. OK?
I only repeat, I only repeat for the purposes of making sure you understand.
Were going to find out.
Because heres what well say, and everybody says: No collusion. Theres no collusion. Now theyre saying, "Oh
Youre going to define it for me, OK? But I can tell you, theres no collusion. I couldnt have cared less about Russians having to do with my campaign. The fact is — you people wont say this, but Ill say it: I was a much better candidate than her. You always say she was a bad candidate. You never say I was a good candidate. I was one of the greatest candidates. Nobody else would have beaten the Clinton machine, as crooked as it was. But I was a great candidate. Someday youre going to say that. Goodbye, everybody.
