Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump|Washington DC, January 22, 2017
Thank you very much. Very Nice.
I just went to the Oval Office and found this beautiful letter from President Obama. It was really very nice of him to do that and we will cherish that we will keep that and we wont even tell the press whats in that letter.
I want to start off by telling you i just spoke with Governor Nathan Deal of Georgia, great state great people. Florida affected, Alabama affected by the tornadoes, and just express our sincere condolences for the lives taken.
Tornadoes were vicious and powerful and strong and they suffered greatly so well be helping out the state of Georgia. Will be speaking with Governor Scott right after this and will be...
Alabamas special places. Florida special place.
but they got hit hard they all got hit hard but looks like Georgias lost at least 11 people as of this moment. A lot of people so on behalf of all of us, Governor Deal, condolences.
We are going to tell you that this has been a very interesting few days. We have set up meetings with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and Prime Minister may will be coming over to the United States shortly.
Were also meeting with the Prime Minister of Canada and we will be meeting with the president of Mexico, you know and were going to start some negotiations having to do with NAFTA. Anybody ever hear of NAFTA? I ran the campaign somewhat based on NAFTA but were going to start renegotiating after on immigration and on security at the border.
And Mexico has been terrific, actually terrific and the president has been really very amazing and I think were going to have a very good result for Mexico, for the United States, for everybody involved very important very very important thing. And speaking of important you are very mportant because with you and all of the people in this room we are going to do some great things over the next eight years and...
all right right great group. Its a great group of people and if theyre not I will let you know about this.
The bad news about being the fact well let you know if theyre not doing the job. ok ill praise Him of theyre doing and Ill let you know if theyre not doing it, but they will do they can do a fantastic job.
Im so proud of him I know him so well. Each and every one of you should be extremely proud.
Give yourselves a round of applause. Come on give yourselves a round of applause.
To your family and friends we are gathered here today. I want them all to know how important you are to the functioning of the White House and ultimately to the functioning of the United States of America.
I also want to thank the families here today for all you have done to support your loved ones as theyve devoted their time and energy to causes of public service including many long nights. Theyll be away long nights and they will go on for a long, long time but were going to come out way ahead.
Were going to come out way ahead as a nation as a country can come out way ahead, because I know what we have. I know how talented these people are.
Were also a team, a team great team its a team that gets along. And as I said during my inaugural address, this is not about party, this is not about ideology.
This is about country, our country and its about serving the American people. Were not here to help ourselves.
Were here to devote ourselves to the National good. Public service is a high-end great calling.
Its our solemn duty together, to protect the country. Our country.
This great great country to defend its workers and promote the well-being of all Americans. So many people are depending on us, and on you.
As families, you as people that are going to get it done. So many people, the veterans the unemployed men and women serving in harms way overseas, victims of crime and young Americans looking to fulfill their dreams.
So many of those young Americans and theyre going to be fulfilling their dreams were going to make it much easier for them. We will face many challenges, but with the faith in each other and the faith in God we will get the job done.
We will prove worthy of this moment in history and I think it may very well be a great moment in history. So be proud, be very clear.
Now I began with this gentleman right here. He said Mike how about it and he said not even a question and it was a great decision from me.
