Donald Trump|Interview: Sean Hannity Interviews Donald Trump on Fox News' Hannity|January 26, 2017
And welcome to Hannity." And we are in our nation's capital
Now, it's been a very busy first week for our new commander-in-chief. Earlier today, we asked President Trump about his agenda, mainstream media bias, repealing and replacing ObamaCare, his upcoming nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court, fighting ISIS and if the job of the presidency has changed him.
Let's take a look. [Begin Videotape]
Mr. President good to see you.
Thank you.
What a week this has been.
It's been a great week. We have accomplished a lot.
Well, that's what I wanted -- first, I got some time to talk with you earlier in the week...
Right.
... in the Oval Office. And the thing that really stood out to me is you seem to be enjoying yourself and very focused on all the promises you made in the campaign. Is it your intention to keep every promise?
Well, I'm going to keep as many as I can. You know, politics is tough. Sometimes, you make a promise, and for some reason, you can't because you have opposition on the other side that raises their hand and they make it impossible. But I'm going to keep a lot of them, and I've kept a lot of them already. Everyone's talking about it.
And we're going to do things that I said we were going to do. And we're going to take care of a lot of people that were mistreated by government for many, many years. And that's really how I won the election in the first place, Sean. You know that better than probably anybody.
Let's talk a little bit about the executive orders on Syria, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen and a 120 ban. That goes to the promise of extreme vetting.
Totally extreme. And beyond just those countries, we're going to have extreme vetting. We're going to have extreme vetting for people coming into our country, and if we think there's a problem, it's not going to be so easy for people to come in anymore.
You look at what's gone on. I mean, we could just go one after another. But then you go to other countries and you look at Nice and you like at different places all over Europe and you look at what's happening with Germany, it's a mess. The crime is incredible. And we're just not going to let that happen here.
Would it be gambling if [inaudible] at some point, when there is a procedure in place, if you can ascertain whether or not somebody's been radicalized or not, or if radical groups actually trained some of their soldiers to say the right things to get in, but if you can't positively ascertain they're safe and find out what's in their heart, does that mean no go? Does that mean you won't gamble?
Well, I tell you what. You used the right word, gamble. We don't want to have gambles. Our country has a lot of problems, well beyond this. And I found out a lot over the last week. I mean, we have serious difficulties. We don't need another difficulty. Right now, the FBI has over 1,000 investigations going on, 1,000...
In all 50 states.
... in all areas. All over the place. And these are people that we let in. We don't need this, all right? We don't need this. Some people have come in with evil intentions, and you know, most haven't, I guess. But we can't take chances. You know, the word gamble is an appropriate word. It's a big gamble. You're throwing something up.
Look, I love this country. You love this country. We can't let this continue to happen. We've taken in tens of thousands of people. We know nothing about them. They can say they vet them. They didn't vet them. They have no papers. How can you vet somebody when you don't know anything about them and you have no papers? How do you vet them? You can't.
On your show, I've seen that they have FBI agents, they have all these people that you have as experts. They say it's impossible to vet them. I don't have to see that to know that they're right.
So we have people in this country that will cause problems. We're not going to have any more. And we're going to be very tough and very, very vigilant.
You do not need Congress now as it relates to building a wall. And you said in an interview last night that you plan to do this expeditiously.
Right.
That's about 700 miles of fencing, other measures, as well. Do you think you'll need more than that? Will you have to go to Congress to get their support for...
I don't think we're going to need too much. Look the wall is necessary. That's not just politics, and yet it is good for the heart of the nation in a certain way because people want protection. And a wall protects. All you have to do is ask Israel. They were having a total disaster coming across, and they had a wall. It's 99.9 percent stoppage.
A proper wall, not a wall that's this high like they have now. They have little toy walls. I don't know why they even wasted their time. If you ever saw where they build the little ramp over the -- I don't even know why they build a ramp. It's cheaper to knock it over. You build a ramp...
You're talking about a real wall, impenetrable.
I'm talking about a real wall. I'm talking about a wall that's got to be, like, serious. And even that, of course, you'll have people violate it. But we'll have people waiting for them when they do. We have a great man, General Kelly, who just got approved very quickly by the Senate, recommended highly by General Mattis and others.
And he's going to be taking very good care of us -- Homeland Security. He's going to be taking very, very good care of us. And you know, when he was named, he didn't even give an order yet, and all of the sudden, the border started tightening up. You saw that. It was on a lot of different shows, they talked about the borders tightening up just by naming General Kelly.
Let me talk about a big decision you're going to make next week. You've announced on Thursday, you will make your Supreme Court choice...
Yes.
... announcement. Two questions on that. One, will it be from the list that you gave out during the campaign?
The answer's yes.
Will it be an originalist?
I don't want to say that. You're going to see on Thursday.
Have you made your decision?
I have made my decision pretty much in my mind, yes.
Next question...
Now, that is subject to change at the last moment. But I think this will be a great choice.
Chuck Schumer, others threatening -- we've never had a Supreme Court Justice filibustered, but there's a chance that might happen. If that happens...
Hey, whatever happens, happens.
Would you want Mitch McConnell to use the nuclear option...
Yes, I would.
You would?
I would...
Have you talked to him about it?
... because look, we have obstructionists. These are people that don't want to -- I almost think they have -- what they did to Jeff Sessions, who's a great man and a wonderful man, and then they delayed it another week because they have a one-week delay option -- that's not fair to a man. Other people are delayed. Look at Pompeo for CIA. This is a great choice. Everybody agrees. And they delayed him a number of days also, even though he was fully approved and voted on by -- you know, I mean, very, very great choice. Why are they doing that?
There are people...
They're obstructionists. I'll tell you what. They're obstructionists. I go to a meeting with them that's supposed to be a very quiet meeting, nobody talking outside of the meeting. They leave the meeting and they have a news conference about what I said. They're talking to the cameras about exactly what I said at the meeting, which is fine because I say things that I don't mind going out because I assume they're going to do that. But the deal was we wouldn't talk to the press. And they go out and they talk to the press.
You mean they're leaking in Washington? That's a shock.
No, no. But I mean, they talk to the press, like, 15 feet away from the door! [Laughter]
It's not like they called up when they got home.
Right.
So look, these are obstructionists, and that's fine.
Let me ask you -- I don't remember you saying this in the campaign, and I was on the road with you quite a bit. We did a lot of the town halls together. But you're now talking about a 10 percent reduction in spending -- in other words, eliminating baseline budgeting -- a 20 percent reduction in the government workforce.
How important is a balanced budget to you? And were you surprised Republicans before you got here raised the debt ceiling $9.7 trillion?
So a balanced budget is fine. But sometimes, you have to fuel the wall in order to really get the economy going. And we have to take care of our military. Our military is more important to me than a balanced budget because we'll get there with a balanced budget.
But we have a military that's really depleted. And I'm negotiating the price of airplanes, can you believe this? But I understand airplanes. I've bought a lot of airplanes.
I heard you got the price down quite a bit already.
I cut off hundreds of millions of dollars off one particular plane, hundreds of millions of dollars in a short period of time. It wasn't like I spent, like, weeks, hours, less than hours, and many, many hundreds of millions of dollars. And the plane's going to be better.
But you do want that 10 percent short of the military?
I want a balanced budget eventually. But I want to have a strong military. To me, that's much more important than anything.
One of the worst ways, it seems, to spend money is going through the Washington bureaucracy. Every Congressman has their pet project. There's been talk about infrastructure, anywhere the Democrats want a trillion dollars...
Right.
I think you've talked about $137 billion to start. Is that something you want to pay as you go? Is that something you'd rather...
Look, our country's in bad shape. We've spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, $6 trillion, Sean!
Right.
OK? How the hell do we do this? It's crazy. And by the way, just so you understand, the Middle East -- I don't want to be -- like, you know, they said the speech can be dark on occasion. Well, we spent $6 trillion.
When I was interviewed last night by David Muir, he said, Aren't you going to make them angry? I said, Angry? How can they be more angry than they are right now? Who are we going to make angry? I thought it was a sort of strange question. But aren't you going to make them angry? I said, They're all angry now. The whole world is angry right now. There's such problems in the world and such anger.
But we spent all of this money in the Middle East and other places. In the meantime, we have to rebuild our country. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. Some Republicans are fine with it. Some Republicans don't like it. Actually, probably, the Democrats like that more than the Republicans because that's always been one of the things.
But Sean, our roads, our bridges, our highways, our schools -- our country is in bad shape!
Yes. By the way, I hear your helicopter out there in the background.
It's all right.
You took great pride in meeting with Carrier, saving jobs, meeting with Ford, savings jobs. You've met with union people...
General Motors… [Crossta;k]
$7 billion by the way.
Yes, we have a lot of -- a lot of plants are going to be built in Michigan and Ohio and North Carolina and Pennsylvania. And I've only been here for four days. But they understand. They understand that if they build a plant outside of the United States, fire all their employees, when that product, whether it's a car or an air-conditioner or a washing machine, when that comes through the border, it's going to be heavily taxed. That's the way it is.
But you want to get rid of 75 percent of regulation.
Yes, I do.
Or more.
75 or more.
Paul Ryan said...
And by the way...
... a 20 percent corporate tax rate. You want a 15 percent...
By the way, the 75 percent -- and we will have the same amount of protection for the consumer because it's very important to me. But we'll also be able to create jobs because right now, you can't even start a company in this country.
Right. The media -- a little bit of a contentious start, if you will, with them. They want to -- I've seen now The New York Times, CNN, NBC -- they've used the word liar" to describe you as it relates if you're talking about crowd size or the border...""ight. The media -- a little bit of a contentious start
They're very hostile. These are very hostile people. These are very angry people.
But they also colluded against you in the campaign.
Yes.
And my question to you is...
Well, they're very dishonest people. The media is very dishonest. I've been saying it. I say it openly.
I said journalism's dead, so we agree.
Never dead, but they're very dishonest people in many cases. Hey, look, you have some very honest ones. But I get stories that are so false and so dishonest...
Martin Luther King's bust?
Yes, they said Martin Luther King's bust was taken out of the Oval Office by me.
It's there.
See that's a very serious charge because they're not saying the bust was taken out. What they're saying is that I'm a racist. That's what they're saying. That's a very serious charge. Then it turned out the bust, it wasn't -- in fact, I got very angry at my people. I said, Who took that bust out? Because I wasn't there. And they said it was never moved. It was in the same exact spot. It was never moved. I said, How could they say it?
A reporter said that it was taken out. But that's a very, very serious charge because that's a racist charge. Then when it was revealed that they were wrong, nobody even talks about it. It was a headline, massive story, Trump takes -- I would never do that.
First of all, I had great respect for Dr. Martin Luther King, so I would never do that. But when it was revealed that it was wrong, it wasn't even a story. Nobody even knows it. I'm saying it now and there have been a little -- like, a line. But that's a very -- so I'll give you another example... [Crosstalk]
Let me give you one other. I went to the CIA, my first stop, because I have great respect for intelligence...
I saw [Inaudible]
... not the man who headed the CIA. Hey, I don't have any respect for him. But Brennan -- I didn't think he was good. But I have great respect for the CIA, for the people.
I went there. I have even more respect now because they took me for tours. They showed me. They're amazing. I made a speech. Now, I know if it's good or bad. I'm really good at knowing did I do well or did I do poorly? And hopefully… [Crosstalk]
I couldn't have done so poorly because I won, right?
Yes.
No, but in your own head, you do, too.
I know. [Crosstalk]
When you do an interview, you say, You know, I did great or I didn't do so good. I gave a speech that really was a 10, relatively speaking. I had a standing ovation like you wouldn't believe. Everybody. And it was such a success.
OK. So now I see CNN and other people say, Well, who was in the audience from Trump? Trump? I went there with a few people. There's nobody. It was all CIA. They said, But I heard the first row and the first two -- you saw that press conference. Sean did a great job.
But this guy, whoever he was -- I don't even know who he was -- he was saying that we stacked the audience. I can't stack the audience at the CIA. I pay great homage to the wall with the stars. I paid great homage.
And the audience was standing ovation. They actually -- they were standing from the beginning. They didn't even sit down. It was one standing ovation, the whole thing. So I get back -- and I will say, Fox treated it great. They said it was great.
When our new person running, Mike Pompeo, who is fantastic -- he said to me the other day, That was so great. Everyone loved it. Everybody loved it. When I got back, I saw the speech. They didn't like it. It wasn't respectful. It was a smattering of applause. It wasn't a smattering. It was -- there were, like, 300, 350 people in the room. Over 1,000 wanted to come. And if I took a vote right now, I would have won 350 to nothing, believe me. But even that was demeaned as much as they can demean it.
What I'm saying, Sean, is this. The media -- much of the media, not all of it, is very, very dishonest. Honestly, it's fake news. It's fake. They make things up.
So then, here's my question. Between Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, I think you reach 50 million people.
Yes, pretty close.
But if -- we know now through WikiLeaks, some of these networks were colluding...
Yes.
... with Hillary's campaign to defeat you.
Right.
I've seen major newspapers, two cable networks that used the word liar. And my question to you is, does that make you want to rethink entirely how this administration will deal with the media?
Well, they are the liars. Let me give you an example. When Sean got up, he talked about the audience and he talked about -- I had the largest audience. I did. I had the largest audience. If you add the television, you add all the sources, the largest audience in the history of inaugurations. I did.
hey try and demean it so much. And when you look at pictures -- I'd love to show you a picture -- when I was in that speech, I looked out, it was a sea of...
Picture of the West Wing.
... people, and they want to demean it. I don't even know when that picture was taken, by the way, to be honest with you. But it wasn't taken from where I was. They take a picture from the back, from the Washington Monument, a backward picture.
They are so demeaning and they are so dishonest. And in many cases now, it's more of -- but when you bring up ...
But I don't remember them treating Barack Obama this way.
They don't.
There is a distinct difference.
Look, that could never have happened. The things that happen to me would -- and he's been very nice to me, I have to say, and he wrote me a beautiful letter. But the Martin Luther King thing is an example. That was a terrible thing. [End Videotape]
And coming up, more of my cable exclusive interview with President Donald Trump in the White House. And I will ask him how he plans to repeal and replace ObamaCare.
That and more as we continue from our nation's capital. [Begin Video Clip]
We will have an ambitious legislative agenda, as well. Our legislative work starts with repealing and replacing ObamaCare and saving families from the catastrophic rise in premiums and debilitating loss of choice and just about everything else.
The president is eager to get moving on this agenda, and so are we. Already, we have hit the ground running, taking the first steps to keep our promise to repeal and replace ObamaCare.
ObamaCare is a disaster. The Democrats are up and they're saying -- oh, they're putting up signs like it's wonderful. It's a disaster. I actually talked with Paul and the group about just doing nothing for two years, and the Dems would come begging to do something because '17 is going to be catastrophic price increases. Your deductibles are through the roof. You can't use it.
His goal, first and foremost, is to make sure that we give the American people a health care system that's affordable, more accessible, more doctors, more plans.
We have to take care of the American people immediately. So we can't wait.
But every time they tell you about ObamaCare -- we're taking them out of a big jam. [Commercial Break]
And welcome back to Hannity
