Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Estero, FL|September 19, 2016

This monster of evil on us and all over this monster of evil on us and all over this monster of evil on us and all over the world and her claim that my the world and her claim that my the world and her claim that my opposition To radical Islamic terrorism opposition to radical Islamic terrorism opposition to radical Islamic terrorism is a reach.
You know, this was something is a reach, you know, this was something is a reach. You know, this was something she said today that it's my strong. She said today that it's my strong, she said today that it's my strong opposition to these people opposition to these people opposition to these people. That's a recruiting tool and it - that's a recruiting tool and it - that's a recruiting tool and it demonstrates a level of ignorance about - demonstrates a level of ignorance about - demonstrates a level of ignorance about the terror threat and its motivations, the terror threat and its motivations.
The terror threat and its motivations, now let me just tell you she is not the - now let me just tell you she is not the - now let me just tell you, she is not the right person to solve a problem that right person to solve a problem That right person to solve a problem that largely her and Oprah and Obama gave us largely her and Oprah and Obama gave us largely her and Oprah and Obama gave us that Obama gave us it disqualifies her.
That Obama gave us it disqualifies her. That Obama gave us it disqualifies her from being a credible presidential from being a credible presidential from being a credible presidential candidate. In my opinion, why do I know in candidate in my opinion, why do I know in candidate in my opinion, why do I know in my opinion, does everybody agree with me?
My opinion does everybody agree with me? My opinion does everybody agree with me or not? That's all we need is four more years of that's all we need is four more years of that's all we need is four more years of Obama except worse. And I will say this, you see that in the - and I will say this, you see that in the - and I will say this, you see that in the polls, you see it all over, you see it polls, you see it all over, you see it polls, You see it all over, you see it outside, she has very, very, very low outside.
She has very, very, very low outside. She has very, very, very low levels of enthusiasm. I think a lot of levels of enthusiasm, I think a lot of levels of enthusiasm. I think a lot of people are not going to bother and go to - people are not going to bother and go to - people are not going to bother and go to the polls to vote for her.
But I know the polls to vote for her. But I know the polls to vote for her, but I know that our people and this is also in the - that our people and this is also in the - that our people and this is also in the polls, the highest level of enthusiasm polls, the highest level Of enthusiasm polls, the highest level of enthusiasm that they've seen, we're gonna vote, obama-clinton have been silent about obama-clinton have been silent about obama-clinton have been silent about Islamic terrorism for many years, Islamic terrorism for many years, Islamic terrorism for many years, that's not lessen the Recruiting, but that's not lessen the recruiting, but that's not lessen the recruiting, but it's increased in, that's what's really, it's increased in, that's what's really, it's increased in, that's what's really happened.
It's increase, its weakness happened, it's increase, its weakness happened, it's increase its weakness. Invites aggression we're weak, weakness invites aggression, we're weak weakness, invites aggression, we're weak weakness, invites aggression and silence in the invites aggression and silence in the invites aggression and silence in the face of a brutal enemy and they have face of a brutal enemy and they have Face of a brutal enemy and they have become brutal because we've allowed them become brutal because we've allowed them become brutal because we've allowed them to become brutal.
It allows it to spread to become brutal. It allows it to spread to become brutal. It allows it to spread and that's what's happening all over the - and that's what's happening all over the - and that's what's happening all over the world now has anyone ever heard? Has anyone now has anyone ever heard? Has anyone now has anyone ever heard?
Has anyone ever heard the snake that I read every ever heard the snake that I read, every ever heard the snake that I read every once in a while, I can do it if you'd once in a while, I can do it if you'd once in a While I can do it, if you'd like, should I do it or not, should I - because to me this was written by Al because to me this was written by Al because to me this was written by Al Wilson in the 1990s and I heard it and I Wilson in the 1990s and I heard it and I Wilson in the 1990s and I heard it and I said, boy, that's exactly what's going on said, boy, that's exactly what's going on said, boy, that's exactly what's going on here the snake because people are coming Here the snake, because people are coming here the snake because people are coming across our border, people are coming in across our border, people are coming in across our border.
People are coming in and brought into our country. We are and brought into our country. We are and brought into our country, we are going to make potentially the Trojan going to make potentially the Trojan going to make potentially the Trojan horse look like something that's very horse look like something that's very horse look like something that's very unimportant by comparison.
And we don't unimportant by comparison and we don't unimportant by comparison and we don't want to be the ones that in two hundred want to be the ones that in two hundred want to be the ones that in two hundred years from now, they're reading about years From now they're reading about years from now, they're reading about allowing something else into our country, allowing something else into our country, allowing something else into our country with a different name than the Trojan, with a different name than the Trojan with a different name than the Trojan horse, but had the same impact, so this is horse, but had the same impact.
So this is horse, but had the same impact. So this is called the snake and this has to do with called the snake and this has to do with called the snake. And this has to do with people coming into our country and I people coming into our country and I people coming into our country and I think you'll enjoy it, think you'll enjoy it, think you'll enjoy it.
Let's see. And more important than enjoy, let's see. And more important than enjoy, let's see, and more important than enjoy, I think it'll make a point on her way to - I think it'll make a point on her way to - I think it'll make a point on her way to work one morning down the path along The work one morning down the path along the work one morning down the path along the lake, a tender-hearted woman saw a poor lake, a tender-hearted woman, saw a poor lake, a tender-hearted woman, saw a poor half frozen snake.
His pretty colored half frozen snake. His pretty colored half frozen snake, his pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew skin had been all frosted with the dew skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh, well, she cried. I'll take you in like, oh, well, she cried. I'll take you in like, oh, well, she cried.
I'll take you in like we're doing and I'll take care of you. We're doing and I'll take care of you. We're doing and I'll take care of - you take me, Oh, tender woman, take me in for take me. Oh, tender woman, take me in for take me, Oh, tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, Oh, tender woman heaven's sake, take me in, Oh, tender woman, heaven's sake, take me in, Oh, tender woman side, the broken snake.
She wrapped him up side. The broken snake, she wrapped him up side the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy and a curvature of silk and all cozy and a curvature of silk and all cozy and a curvature of silk and then laid him by the fireside with some then laid him by the fireside, with some then laid him by the Fireside with some honey and some milk, now she hurried home honey and some milk, now she hurried home honey and some milk.
Now she hurried home from work that night as soon as she from work that night as soon as she from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she arrived. She found that pretty snake she arrived. She found that pretty snake. She taken in, had been revived take me in no taken in, had been revived take me in no taken in, had been revived.
Take me in no tender woman take me in for heaven's tender woman take me in for heaven's tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake, take me in sake, take me in sake, take me in, Oh, tender woman side, the broken snake, Oh, tender woman side, the broken snake, Oh, tender woman side, the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom.
Now she clutched him to her bosom, now she clutched him to her bosom. You're so beautiful, she cried. But if I - you're so beautiful, she cried. But if I - you're so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadn't brought you in by now, you hadn't brought you in by now, you hadn't brought you in by now, you certainly might have died, certainly might have died, certainly might have died.
Now she stroked his pretty skin and then now she stroked his pretty skin and then now she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed and held him tight. But she kissed and held him tight, but she kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you instead of saying thank you instead of saying thank you that snake gave her a vicious bite, take that snake gave her a vicious bite, take that snake gave her a vicious bite.
Take me, you know, tender woman. Take me in for me, you know, tender woman take me in for me, you know, tender woman take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in Oh, tender woman heaven's sake. Take me in, Oh, tender woman heaven's sake, take me in, Oh, tender woman side, the vicious snake I saved you side the vicious snake.
I saved you side the vicious snake. I saved you cried the woman and you've bit me cried the woman and you've bit me cried the woman and you've bit me heavens why you know your bite is heavens, why you know your bite is heavens, why you know your bite is poisonous. And now I'm going to die, oh, poisonous, and now I'm going to die, oh poisonous.
And now I'm going to die, oh, shut up. Silly woman said the reptile shut up. Silly woman said the reptile shut up. Silly woman said the reptile with a grin, you knew. Damn well, I was a - with a grin, you knew damn well, I was a - with a grin you knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in. It's amazing gonna happen unless we get - it's amazing gonna happen unless we get - it's amazing.
Gon na happen unless we get very, very, very smart, very, very, very smart, very, very, very smart. Oh, don't worry better. We're gonna build, oh, don't worry better. We're gonna build, oh, don't worry better. We're gonna build the wall. Don't worry. We're gonna build a wall and Mexico's, we're gonna build a wall and Mexico's we're gonna build a wall and Mexico's gonna pay for the wall that we're gonna gonna pay for the wall that we're gonna gonna pay for the Wall that we're gonna make great trade deals and lots of good make great trade deals and lots of good make great trade deals and lots of good things are gonna happen, don't worry, things are gonna happen, don't worry, things are gonna happen.
Don't worry about. So Isis is torturing murdering executing. So Isis is torturing murdering executing. So Isis is torturing murdering executing and exterminating people in a campaign and exterminating people in a campaign and exterminating people in a campaign of genocide and what is Hillary of genocide and what is Hillary of genocide and what is Hillary Clinton's suggestion that we should Clinton's suggestion That we should Clinton's suggestion that we should censor our vocabulary and never say censor our vocabulary and never say censor our vocabulary and never say these certain words refusing to say the these certain words refusing to say the these certain words refusing to say the words radical Islam has not saved a words radical Islam has not saved a words.
Radical Islam has not saved a single life and never will. Our president single life and never will. Our president single life and never will. Our president doesn't say the words and look what's doesn't say the words and look what's doesn't say the words and look what's happening here and all over the world happening here and all over the world happening here and all over the world, they refused to say the Words they refused to say the words, they refused to say the words, we're presiding over something that the - we're presiding over, something that the we're presiding over, something that the world has not seen.
The level of evil is world has not seen the level of evil is world has not seen the level of evil is unbelievable. When we went to high school, unbelievable. When we went to high school, unbelievable. When we went to high school and we went to college, we'd study and we went to college, we'd study and we went to college, we'd study medieval times, that's when they chopped medieval times.
That's when they chopped medieval times. That's when they chopped off heads. Well. We're in medieval times off heads well, we're in medieval times off heads well. We're in medieval times. That's what we are. They chop off heads. That's what we are. They chop off heads, that's what we are. They chop off heads, they drown people in steel cages.
They - they drown people in steel cages. They - they drown people in steel cages. They bury people in the sand, bury people in the sand, bury people in the sand. There's never - we've never seen anything. There's never - we've never seen anything. There's never - we've never seen anything like that, like that like that.
I was against going into the war in Iraq. I was against going into the war in Iraq. I was against going into the war in Iraq, but we got out the wrong way President, but we got out the wrong way President, but we got out the wrong way. President Obama did a terrible thing the way he Obama did a terrible thing the way he Obama did a terrible thing the way he got us out of the war and by the way and somebody was telling and by the way and somebody was telling and by The way and somebody was telling me a great expert this weekend, iraq has me a great expert this weekend.
Iraq has me a great expert. This weekend. Iraq has essentially been taken over by iran, all essentially been taken over by iran, all essentially been taken over by iran. All of those lives, all of that money of those lives, all of that money of those lives, all of that money, trillions and trillions of dollars.
What trillions and trillions of dollars, what trillions and trillions of dollars what have we got and then on top of it, he got have we got and then on top of it, he got, have we got. And then on top of it, he got us out the wrong way and isis formed us out the wrong way and isis formed us out the wrong way and isis formed great job.
President obama, great job, great job. President obama, great job, great job. President obama, great job, great job. Just like we named our enemy in the Cold, just like we named our enemy in the Cold, just like we named our enemy in the Cold War. So too must we name our enemy today. Clinton's comments might not fit the Clinton's comments might not fit.
The Clinton's comments might not fit the far-left far-left far-left think tanks, but they have no place for think tanks, but they have no place for think tanks, but they have no place for someone seeking a job. As commander in someone seeking a job as commander in someone seeking a job as commander in chief, they are just naive but reckless, chief.
They are just naive but reckless, chief. They are just naive but reckless and they're beneath the high standards and they're beneath the high standards and they're beneath the high standards of the office that she is seeking the of the office that she is seeking, the of the office that she is seeking. The White House says it's just a war of White House says it's just a war of White House says it's just a war of narratives.
Imagine telling that to the narratives, imagine telling that to the narratives, imagine telling that to the thousands of people murdered by this thousands of people murdered by this thousands of people murdered by this sadistic evil enemy. This is the sadistic evil enemy. This is the sadistic evil enemy.
This is the so-called leadership that's turned Isis so-called leadership that's turned Isis so-called leadership that's turned Isis loose on the world. And flung our borders loose on the world and flung our borders loose on the world and flung our borders wide open wide open. It's time for tough wide open wide open.
It's time for tough wide open wide open. It's time for tough borders. It's time for common sense, it's borders, it's time for common sense, it's borders, it's time for common sense. It's time to do things right. We have to put time to do things right. We have to put time to do things right. We have to put America first.
We have to put America America first. We have to put America America first. We have to put America first. Obama and Clinton have toppled regimes. Obama and Clinton have toppled regimes. Obama and Clinton have toppled regimes, displaced millions of people, then open displaced millions of people. Then open displaced millions of people then open the door to Isis to enter our country the door to Isis to enter our country the door to Isis to enter our country.
This is a not too smart policy. This will - this is a not too smart policy. This will - this is a not too smart policy. This will go down when people look at this in the go down. When people look at this in the go down, when people look at this in the years ahead as among the worst foreign years ahead as among the worst foreign years ahead as among the worst foreign policy decisions ever made by any policy decisions ever made by any Policy decisions ever made by any country at any time we have opened the country at any time.
We have opened the country at any time. We have opened the world to Isis and now we have to close world to Isis and now we have to close world to Isis and now we have to close those doors. Hillary Clinton's decisions overseas, Hillary Clinton's decisions overseas. Hillary Clinton's decisions overseas have left us with the threat we face have left us with the threat we face have left us with the threat we face today and her immigration policies will today and her immigration policies will today and her immigration policies will invite this threat Onto our shores and invite this threat onto our shores and invite this threat onto our shores and it's already happening, we must stop the - it's already happening.
We must stop the - it's already happening. We must stop the massive inflow of refugees, which Hillary massive inflow of refugees, which Hillary massive inflow of refugees, which Hillary Clinton is trying to dramatically. Clinton is trying to dramatically. Clinton is trying to dramatically increase far more than we're taking in increase far more than we're taking in increase far more than we're taking in now.
She wants it dramatically increased. Now she wants it dramatically increased. Now she wants it dramatically increased. You almost say is this possible you almost say is this possible you almost say is this possible you almost say, can this even be you almost say, can this even be you almost say can this even be happening especially in light of what's happening, especially in light Of what's happening, especially in light of what's going on all over the world, going on all over the world going on all over the world, we should temporarily suspend, we should temporarily suspend, we should temporarily suspend immigration entirely from regions.
We're immigration entirely from regions. We're immigration entirely from regions we're safe and adequate screening cannot occur safe and adequate screening cannot occur safe and adequate screening cannot occur. My policy will benefit the millions of my policy will benefit. The millions of my policy will benefit the millions of wonderful immigrants living here and the wonderful immigrants living here and the wonderful immigrants living here and the wonderful immigrants coming in to our wonderful immigrants coming in to our wonderful immigrants coming in to our country in the Future because all good country in the future because all good country in the future because all good and decent loving people want to live in and decent loving, people want to live in and decent loving.
People want to live in a good and decent loving country. Let me a good and decent loving country. Let me a good and decent loving country. Let me emphasize this point. The pro-immigrant emphasize this point. The pro-immigrant emphasize this point. The pro-immigrant position is the position that favors position is the position that favors position is the position that favors tough screening and tight controls and tough screening and tight controls and tough screening and tight controls.
And we want people to come into our country. We want people to come into our country, we want people to come into our country, but they have to come in Legally through, but they have to come in Legally through. But they have to come in Legally through a process and we need extreme screening. All immigrants benefit when we keep out all immigrants benefit when we keep out all immigrants benefit.
When we keep out those who do not truly wish to join our - those who do not truly wish to join our - those who do not truly wish to join our society immigrants benefit economically. Society immigrants benefit economically, society immigrants benefit economically in terms of less job competition and in terms of less job competition and in terms of less job competition and they benefit in terms of safety.
When we they benefit in terms of safety, when we they benefit in terms of safety, when we control future admissions into our control, future admissions into our control, future admissions into our nation, we want to take care and protect nation. We want to take care and protect nation. We want to take care and protect all of our people, including our great all of our people, including our great all of our people, including our great law-abiding American loving immigrants, law-abiding American loving immigrants, law-abiding American loving immigrants.
No one has a right to immigrate to this. No one has a right to immigrate to this. No one has a right to immigrate to this country. It is the job of a responsible country. It is the job of a responsible country. It is the job of a responsible government to admit only those who government to admit only those who government to admit only those who expect to succeed and flourish here and expect to succeed and flourish here and expect to succeed and flourish here and really be proud Of what they've done and really be proud of what they've done and really be proud of what they've done and where they came from and they have to where they came from and they have to where they came from and they have to love our country.
They have to love us what amazing people, you know florid I what amazing people you know florid I what amazing people you know florid. I think we're gonna win by a lot win by a think we're gonna win by a lot win by a think. We're gonna win by a lot, win by a lot. I can't say this when Hillary comes in, I can't say this when Hillary comes in, I can't say this.
When Hillary comes in, she has very small crowds that I can. She has very small crowds that I can - she has very small crowds that I can tell and I hope the press is covering the - and I hope the press is covering the - and I hope the press is covering the size of this arena and the crowd here Size of this arena and the crowd here size of this arena and the crowd here and the thousands in her outside, which - and the thousands in her outside which - and the thousands in her outside, which they're not, which they're not pew, they're not, which they're not pew.
They're not which they're not pew polling shows that in many of the polling shows that in many of the polling shows that in many of the countries from which we drew a large countries from which we drew a large countries from which we drew a large numbers Of immigrants, extreme views, numbers of immigrants, extreme views, numbers of immigrants, extreme views about religion such as the death penalty about religion such as the death penalty about religion such as the death penalty.
For those who leave the faith are for those who leave the faith are for those who leave the faith are commonplace, for instance, according to commonplace, for instance, according to commonplace. For instance, according to Pew, a majority of gana Stan and Iraq, the Pew a majority of gana, Stan and Iraq, the Pew a majority of gana, Stan and Iraq, the people in Afghanistan and Iraq say honor people in Afghanistan and Iraq, say honor people in Afghanistan and Iraq say honor killings of women are often justified.
Killings of women are often justified. Killings of women are often justified. We've admitted around 100,000 from these we've admitted around 100,000 from these. We've admitted around 100,000 from these countries over the last short period of countries. Over the last short period of countries, over the last short period of time and this thug today, they think came time and this thug today, they think came time and this thug today they think came through Afghanistan through Afghanistan through Afghanistan.
What kind of screening procedures were? What kind of screening procedures were, what kind of screening procedures were performed? These were difficult subjects performed. These were difficult. Subjects performed. These were difficult subjects, but they must be discussed by all, but they must be discussed by all, but they must be discussed by all responsible leaders.
We have an responsible leaders, we have an responsible leaders. We have an obligation to discuss them and to come obligation, to discuss them and to come obligation to discuss them and to come up with the right solution. This is the up with the right solution. This is the up with the right solution. This is the kind of thing we need to have an honest kind of thing.
We need to have an honest kind of thing. We need to have an honest conversation about when devising conversation about when devising conversation about when devising screening methods, they have to be good screening methods. They have to be good screening methods. They have to be good screening methods.
They have to be screening methods. They have to be screening methods, they have to be methods at work and unless we have those methods at work and unless we have those methods at work and unless we have those methods - sorry, folks, you can't come into methods. Sorry, folks, you can't come into methods.
Sorry, folks, you can't come into the country. Sorry. Just look at the San Bernadino horrible. Just look at the San Bernadino horrible, just look at the San Bernadino horrible shooting and the female shooter who came shooting and the female shooter who came shooting and the female shooter who came on a fiance visa from Saudi Arabia on a fiance visa from Saudi Arabia.
On a fiance visa from Saudi Arabia defeating, this threat will also require defeating. This threat will also require defeating. This threat will also require the best intelligence gathering in the - the best intelligence gathering in the - the best intelligence gathering in the world. By the way, the detainees being world, by the way, the detainees being world, by the way, the detainees being released from Gitmo are returning to the released from Gitmo are returning to the released from Gitmo are returning to the battlefield.
You're hearing about that battlefield, you're hearing about that battlefield, you're hearing about that right. Let them go, let them go and then right, let them go, let them go and then right, let them go, let them go and then they return to the battlefield and they return to the battlefield and they return to the battlefield.
And everybody's surprised. Everybody's surprised. Everybody's surprised is anybody in this room surprised that is anybody in this room surprised that is anybody in this room surprised that many that many of those detainees are many that many of those detainees are many that many of those detainees are returning to the battlefield.
And some returning to the battlefield and some returning to the battlefield and some immediately, we also need the best immediately. We also need the best immediately. We also need the best protection of classified information, protection of classified information, protection of classified information.
That is the worst situation Hillary's that is the worst situation. Hillary's that is the worst situation. Hillary's private email scandal, which put our private email scandal, which put our private email scandal, which put our classified information in the reach of classified information in the reach of classified information in the reach of our enemies, disqualifies her from the our enemies disqualifies her from the Our enemies disqualifies her from the presidency, then she covered up her criminal acts by then.
She covered up her criminal acts by then. She covered up her criminal acts by mass deleting her emails, how about she mass deleting her emails, how about she mass deleting her emails, how about she gets a subpoena from the United States, gets a subpoena from the United States, gets a subpoena from the United States Congress and after she gets to subpoena Congress and after she gets to subpoena Congress and after she gets to subpoena, she deletes 33,000 emails Plus and she deletes 33,000 emails Plus and she deletes 33,000 emails Plus and everything's just fine.
What is going on and not only - not only did she delete him and not only - not only did she delete him and not only - not only did she delete him, but she bleached them something that - but she bleached them something that - but she bleached them something that Most people have never even heard about. Most people have never even heard about.
Most people have never even heard about and she destroyed her phones many the - and she destroyed her phones many the - and she destroyed her phones many the old-fashioned way with a hammer did old-fashioned way with a hammer did old-fashioned way with a hammer. Did anyone ever hear this before? This is anyone ever hear this before.
This is anyone ever hear this before. This is beneath the dignity of the Oval Office beneath the dignity of the Oval Office beneath the dignity of the Oval Office. Our next president must also stand up. Our next president must also stand up. Our next president must also stand up for America and promote American values.
Do you all remember President Obama's - do you all remember President Obama's - do you all remember President Obama's apology to her, he apologized for the apology to her. He apologized for the apology to her. He apologized for the United States. We're - sorry, we're so sorry, United States, we're - sorry, we're so sorry, United States, we're - sorry, we're so sorry, we're - so sorry, his naive words were we're so sorry, his naive words were we're so sorry, his naive words were followed by even more naive actions, the followed by Even more naive actions, the followed by even more naive actions, the failure to establish a new Status of failure to establish a new Status of failure to establish a new Status of Forces Agreement in Iraq and the Forces Agreement in Iraq and the Forces Agreement in Iraq.
And the election driven timetable for withdrawal, election driven timetable for withdrawal, election driven timetable for withdrawal, a disaster surrendered, our gains in that a disaster, surrendered our gains in that a disaster, surrendered our gains in that country and led directly to the rise of country and led Directly to the rise of country and led directly to the rise of Isis I oppose going into Iraq, unlike Isis I oppose going into Iraq, unlike Isis I oppose going into Iraq, unlike Hillary Clinton and I opposed the Hillary Clinton and I opposed the Hillary Clinton.
And I opposed the reckless way, Obama Clinton left Iraq, the reckless way Obama Clinton left Iraq, the reckless way Obama Clinton left Iraq. The failures in Iraq were compounded by failures in Iraq, were compounded by failures in Iraq, were compounded by Hillary Clinton's disaster in Libya. Hillary Clinton's disaster in Libya, Hillary Clinton's disaster in Libya.
President obama has since said he - president obama has since said he - president obama has since said he regrets Libya as his worst mistake and regrets Libya as his worst mistake and regrets Libya as his worst mistake and you wouldn't know to watch him. But I - you wouldn't know to watch him, but I - you wouldn't know to watch him.
But I believe that if you could go back years, believe that if you could go back years, believe that if you could go back years and he had the decision whether or not - and he had the decision whether or not. And he had the decision whether or not to make her Secretary of State he can to make her Secretary of State he can to make her Secretary of State.
He can never admit this, and I never expect him never admit this. And I never expect him never admit this and I never expect him to, although maybe if he gets a lot of to, although maybe if he gets a lot of to, although maybe if he gets a lot of money for a book. But he would choose not money for a book, but he would choose not money for a book, but he would choose not to make her Secretary of State that's to make her Secretary of State that's to make her Secretary of State.
That's what I think because she was a disaster, she's the one who pushed for the war. She's the one who pushed for the war. She's the one who pushed for the war with one episode of bad judgment after with one episode of bad judgment after with one episode of bad judgment after another. And remember, Bernie Sanders another - and remember Bernie Sanders another, and remember Bernie Sanders during the debates said on numerous during the debates said on numerous during the debates, said on numerous occasions that Hillary Clinton suffers occasions that Hillary Clinton suffers occasions that Hillary Clinton suffers from bad Judgment she does so that bad from bad judgment, she does.
So that bad from bad judgment, she does. So that bad judgment was just a disaster and we have judgment was just a disaster and we have judgment was just a disaster and we have now the situation that we have lots of now the situation that we have lots of now the situation that we have Lots of problems all over the world and yes, Isis problems all over the world and yes, Isis problems all over the world.
And yes, Isis has been launched and launched fully yet has been launched and launched fully yet has been launched and launched fully yet as she through the Middle East into - as she through the Middle East into as she through the Middle East into violent turmoil. Things turned out very violent turmoil, things turned out very violent turmoil, things turned out very well for her well for her well for her.
The Clintons made 60 million dollars in the Clintons made 60 million dollars in the Clintons made 60 million dollars in gross income. While she was Secretary of gross income while she was Secretary of gross income while she was Secretary of State enough is enough, it's time to break with enough is enough.
It's time to break with enough is enough. It's time to break with the corruption, the bad judgment and the - the corruption, the bad judgment and the - the corruption, the bad judgment and the failures. It's time to have a new and failures. It's time to have a new and. Failures, it's time to have a new and great American future.
We're going to change our immigration. We're going to change our immigration. We're going to change our immigration system to reflect American values system to reflect American values system to reflect American values. Remember, American bug, we're going to remember American bug, we're going to remember American bug, we're going to stop the reckless and costly policy of stop the reckless and costly policy of stop the reckless and costly policy of regime change overseas and instead focus regime change overseas.
And instead, focus regime change overseas and instead focus on working in partnership with our - on working in partnership with our - on working in partnership with our allies or a military campaign to utterly allies or a military campaign to utterly allies or a military campaign to utterly destroy. Isis, we have no choice this destroy Isis.
We have no choice. This destroy Isis. We have no choice. This effort will require military warfare, but effort will require military warfare, but effort will require military warfare, but also financial warfare, cyber warfare and also financial warfare, cyber warfare and also financial warfare, cyber warfare and even ideological warfare.
We have to beat even ideological warfare. We have to beat even ideological warfare. We have to beat them at their own game. They're playing them at their own game. They're playing them at their own game. They're playing the game much better than we are and the game much better than we are. And the game much better than we are and youth is going for their version, not our youth is going for their version, not our youth is going for their version, not our version.
Our goal is not to build version. Our goal is not to build version. Our goal is not to build democracies. Our goal is to feed. We want democracies. Our goal is to feed. We want democracies. Our goal is to feed. We want to defeat our enemies and then we want to defeat our enemies and then we want to defeat our enemies and then we want to get back to rebuilding our country to get back to rebuilding our country to get back to rebuilding our country.
Our country's a mess, our infrastructure, our country's a mess, our infrastructure, our country's a mess. Our infrastructure is a disaster we owe right now. Almost 20 is a disaster we owe right now. Almost 20 is a disaster we owe right now almost 20 trillion dollars and our country's in trillion dollars and our country's in trillion dollars and our country's in trouble enough, endless war.
It's time to trouble enough, endless war, it's time to trouble enough, endless war. It's time to have a real plan for victory but to win have a real plan for victory but to win have a real plan for victory. But to win this struggle, we need to be strong at this struggle. We need to be strong at this struggle.
We need to be strong at home. My economic plan can be summed up home. My economic plan can be summed up home. My economic plan can be summed up in three very simple words. Jobs jobs in three very simple words, jobs, jobs in three very simple words, jobs, jobs, jobs. I am going to massively lower your taxes.
I am going to massively lower your taxes. I am going to massively lower your taxes. That's businesses, and that's - that's businesses and that's - that's businesses and that's middle-income. That's everybody. I'm going to get rid of the vast amounts. I'm going to get rid of the vast amounts. I'm going to get rid of the vast amounts of unnecessary regulations on your - of unnecessary regulations on your - of unnecessary regulations on your businesses and in your life.
It's businesses and in your life, it's businesses and in your life, it's horrible. I'm going to repeal and replace horrible. I'm going to repeal and replace horrible. I'm going to repeal and replace Obamacare is a disaster. I'm going to unleash American energy. I'm going to unleash American energy. I'm going to unleash American energy, unleash American energy.
And where did you see what happens, we'll - and where did you see what happens, we'll - and where did you see what happens? We'll start paying down our debt so many start paying down our debt, so many start paying down our debt. So many things can happen. And even your electric things can happen and even your electric things can happen and even your electric bill will be a lot less.
I hope we do it. Bill will be a lot less. I hope we do it. Bill will be a lot less. I hope we do it properly. I know I'm going to appoint properly. I know I'm going to appoint properly. I know I'm going to appoint justices to the Supreme Court who will justices to the Supreme Court who will justices to the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.
I'm going to rebuild our depleted - I'm going to rebuild our depleted - I'm going to rebuild our depleted military and take care of our veterans. I'm going to renegotiate our disastrous. I'm going to renegotiate our disastrous, I'm going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals and they are indeed a trade deals and they are indeed a trade deals and they are indeed a disaster.
I'm going to put American workers first. I'm going to put American workers first. I'm going to put American workers first and fix our rigged system. It's a rigged and fix our rigged system. It's a rigged and fix our rigged system. It's a rigged system funk. We will rebuild our roads, system funk. We will rebuild our roads, system funk.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, highways, airport, our bridges, our tunnels, highways, airport, our bridges, our tunnels, highways, airport, schools and hospitals. American cars will schools and hospitals, American cars will schools and hospitals. American cars will travel the roads, American planes will travel the roads, American planes will travel the roads, American planes will soar the skies and American ships will soar the skies and American ships will soar the skies and American ships will patrol.
The seas American steel will send new skyscrapers. American steel will send new skyscrapers, American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds. American hands will into the clouds. American hands will into the clouds. American hands will rebuild our nation American hands, an American energy mine from American.
An American energy mine from American, an American energy mine from American sources will power this nation. American sources will power this nation. American sources will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job we workers will be hired to do the job. We workers will be hired to do the job.
We will put new American steel into the - will put new American steel into the - will put new American steel into the spine of our country. I will fight for spine of our country. I will fight for spine of our country. I will fight for every neglected part of this nation and every neglected part of this nation and every neglected part of this nation.
And I will fight to bring us together as one. I will fight to bring us together as one. I will fight to bring us together as one American people imagine what our country, American people imagine what our country, American people imagine, what our country could accomplish if we started working could accomplish if we started working, could accomplish if we started working together as one people Under one God together as one people under one God together as one people under one God saluting one American flag, it's time to break with the bitter.
It's time to break with the bitter. It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a failures of the past and to embrace a failures of the past and to embrace a new inclusive and prosperous American. New inclusive and prosperous American, new inclusive and prosperous American future.
A future of success together'no future a future of success together'no future a future of success together'no sand, unity a future of fixing our inner sand unity, a future of fixing our inner sand, unity, a future of fixing our inner cities and our african-american areas of cities and Our african-american areas of cities and our african-american areas of this country that have been treated, so this country that have been treated, so this country that have been treated so badly, our inner cities are a Hara, no jobs.
No. Our inner cities are a Hara, no jobs. No, our inner cities are a Hara, no jobs, no safety. Education is the worst. We're safety. Education is the worst. We're safety. Education is the worst. We're gonna fix it. We're gonna fix it, you've gonna fix it, we're gonna fix it. You've gonna fix it, we're gonna fix it.
You've been hearing that for years and years by been hearing that for years and years by been hearing that for years and years by the Democrats who have run the inner, the Democrats who have run the inner. The Democrats who have run the inner cities for, in some cases more than a cities for, in some cases more than a cities for, in some cases more than a hundred years.
Faith, we're going to fix hundred years. Faith, we're going to fix hundred years. Faith, we're going to fix our inner cities and I'm gonna get our inner cities and I'm gonna get our inner cities and I'm gonna get tremendous votes from the tremendous votes from the tremendous votes from the african-american community and we're african-american community and we're African-american community and we're gonna get tremendous votes from the gonna get tremendous votes from the gonna get tremendous votes from the Hispanic community.
We're gonna bring Hispanic community, we're gonna bring Hispanic community, we're gonna bring jobs back to our country, jobs back to our country jobs back to our country. We're gonna bring jobs back to our - we're gonna bring jobs back to our - we're gonna bring jobs back to our country. And once more we're going to country and once more we're going to country.
And once more, we're going to have a government of By and For the have a government of By and For the have a government of By. And For the People we will make America and some people we will make America and some people we will make America and some people don't like this because it doesn't sound, don't like this because it doesn't sound, don't like this because it doesn't sound right, right, right?
Wealthy again we will make America wealthy again, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe strong again. We will make America safe strong again. We will make America safe again and we will make America great again and we will make America great again and we will make America great.