Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in New York, NY|July 16, 2016
[This was transcribed and punctuated by Factba.se's AI, Margaret, and automatically corrected based on her understanding of Donald Trump's speech patterns. It has not been edited by a human. Please double-check any quotes against the video.]
And we're gonna have any credible convention and we're going to credible convention and we're going to credible convention and we're going to get things solved and we're going to do get things solved and we're going to do get things solved and we're going to do lots Of wonderful things for our country, lots of wonderful things for our country, lots of wonderful things for our country, most importantly.
So I'm here today to most importantly. So I'm here today to most importantly. So I'm here today to introduce the man who will be my partner, introduce the man, who will be my partner, introduce the man, who will be my partner in this campaign and the White House to in this campaign and the White House to in this campaign.
And the White House to fix our rigged system, we are in a rigged fix, our rigged system. We are in a rigged fix, our rigged system, we are in a rigged rigged system and to make America safe rigged system and to make America safe rigged system and to make America safe again and to make America great again.
I want to also address the Islamic terror want to also address the Islamic terror, want to also address the Islamic terror attack in France. We've witnessed horror attack in France. We've witnessed horror attack in France. We've witnessed horror beyond belief beyond belief, beyond belief no matter where you look and now it's no matter where you look and now it's no matter where you look and now it's happening more and more.
And it's never happening more and more. And it's never happening more. And more and it's never going to stop, we need new leadership, we going to stop, we need new leadership, we going to stop, we need new leadership, we need new thinking, we need strength, we need new thinking, we need strength, we need new thinking, we need strength.
We need in our country law and order and if need in our country law and order and if need in our country law and order and if I'm elected president that will happen, I'm elected president. That will happen. I'm elected president. That will happen. I want to express our unyielding support. I want to express our unyielding support.
I want to express our unyielding support for the people of France and we mourn for the people of France and we mourn for the people of France and we mourn their loss as a nation and as far as their loss as a nation. And as far as their loss as a nation and as far as Turkey is concerned, so many friends in Turkey is concerned.
So many friends in Turkey is concerned. So many friends in Turkey, great people, amazing people. We - Turkey, great people, amazing people. We - Turkey great people, amazing people. We wish them well. It looks like they're wish them well. It looks like they're wish them well. It looks like they're resolving the difficulty.
But we wish resolving the difficulty, but we wish resolving the difficulty, but we wish them well. A lot of - a lot of anguish last them. Well, a lot of - a lot of anguish last them. Well, a lot of - a lot of anguish last night, but hopefully it'll all work out night. But hopefully it'll all work out night.
But hopefully, it'll all work out now as hopefully the next president of now as hopefully the next president of now as hopefully the next president of the United States. I want to refer back the United States. I want to refer back the United States. I want to refer back to what's happened over the years the - to what's happened over the years, the - to what's happened over the years, the Middle East today is more unstable than Middle East.
Today is more unstable than Middle East. Today is more unstable than ever before. Never been like this out of ever before, never been like this out of ever before. Never been like this out of control after four years of Clinton who control after four years of Clinton who control after four years of Clinton, who really led the way and led Obama down a really led the way and led Obama down a really led the way.
And led Obama down a horrible path because I don't even think horrible path because I don't even think horrible path because I don't even think he could have made these decisions so he could have made these decisions so he could have made these decisions so badly. She led him right down a horrible badly.
She led him right down a horrible badly. She led him right down a horrible path. He didn't know what he was doing path. He didn't know what he was doing path. He didn't know what he was doing. Iraq, Syria, all into chaos and Iran is on Iraq, Syria, all into chaos. And Iran is on Iraq, Syria, all into chaos.
And Iran is on a path to nuclear weapons and on top of a path to nuclear weapons and on top of a path to nuclear weapons. And on top of that, we gave them back 150 billion that we gave them back 150 billion that we gave them back 150 billion dollars and we didn't get our hostages dollars and we didn't get our hostages dollars and we didn't get our hostages until the end.
Now we're seeing unrest in until the end now we're seeing unrest in until the end. Now we're seeing unrest in Turkey, a further demonstration of the Turkey, a further demonstration of the Turkey, a further demonstration of the failures of Obama. 20, you just have to failures of Obama 20, you just have to failures of Obama 20, you just have to look.
Every single thing they touched has, look, every single thing they touched has look, every single thing they touched has turned to horrible, horrible turned to horrible, horrible turned to horrible, horrible death-defying problems. We also need to death-defying problems. We also need to death-defying problems.
We also need to bring back in this country because we bring back in this country because we bring back in this country because we see what happened our industry, our see what happened, our industry, our see what happened, our industry, our manufacture, our jobs, they've been taken Manufacture our jobs, they've been taken, manufacture our jobs, they've been taken away like we're babies, take it away and away like we're babies, take it away and away like we're babies, take it away and we're gonna bring them back.
I found the - we're gonna bring them back. I found the - we're gonna bring them back. I found the leader who will help us deliver a safe leader who will help us deliver a safe leader who will help us deliver a safe society and her prophecy prospers really society and her prophecy prospers really society and her prophecy prospers really prosperous society for all Americans prosperous society for all Americans, prosperous society for all Americans.
Indiana Governor, Mike Pence was my first. Indiana Governor, Mike Pence was my first. Indiana Governor, Mike Pence was my first choice. I've admired the work. He's done choice. I've admired the work, he's done choice. I've admired the work he's done, especially in the state of Indiana and especially in the state of Indiana and especially in the state of Indiana.
And I'm going to go over some of those. I'm going to go over some of those. I'm going to go over some of those accomplishments in just a minute, but I accomplishments in just a minute, but I accomplishments in just a minute. But I also admire the fact that he fights for also admire the fact that he fights for - also admire the fact that he fights for the people and he's going to fight for the people and he's going to fight for the people and he's going to fight For you he is a solid solid person.
Governor Pence served Indiana with Governor Pence served Indiana with Governor Pence served Indiana with distinction. In Congress he rose to distinction. In Congress, he rose to distinction in Congress, he rose to leadership and served as the chairman of leadership and served as the chairman of leadership and served as the chairman of the entire House Republican Conference, the entire House Republican Conference, the entire House Republican Conference number one.
He's really got the skills of number one, he's really got the skills of number one, he's really got the skills of a highly talented executive leading the - a highly talented executive leading the - a highly talented executive leading the state of Indiana to jobs growth and state of Indiana to jobs growth and state of Indiana to jobs growth and opportunity in spite of the relentless opportunity.
In spite of the relentless opportunity in spite of the relentless obstacles put in his way at every obstacles put in his way at every obstacles put in his way. At every state's way by the Obama administration state's way by the Obama administration state's way by the Obama administration, it's horrible out there high taxes and it's horrible out there high taxes and it's horrible out there, high taxes and regulations and it's out of control regulations.
And it's out of control regulations and it's out of control. Mike Pence is a man of honor. Character. Mike Pence is a man of honor. Character. Mike Pence is a man of honor, character and honesty. We know that Hillary Clinton and honesty, we know that Hillary Clinton and honesty, we know that Hillary Clinton is the embodiment of corruption.
She's a - is the embodiment of corruption. She's a - is the embodiment of corruption. She's a corrupt person, what she's done with her corrupt person, what she's done with her corrupt person, what she's done with her emails, what she's done with so many emails, what she's done with so many emails, what she's done with so many things.
And I see the ads up all the time things and I see the ads up all the time things and I see the ads up all the time. The ads, she's totally bought and paid the ads. She's totally bought and paid the ads. She's totally bought and paid for by Wall Street. The special interests for by Wall Street, the special interests for by Wall Street, the special interests, the lobbyists, 100 %, she's crooked Hillary.
And I think that well, she got away with. And I think that well she got away with and I think that well she got away with murder, in fact, I think it might be her murder. In fact, I think it might be her murder. In fact, I think it might be her greatest accomplishment escaping the greatest accomplishment escaping the greatest accomplishment escaping the recent scandal and her lies and the loss recent scandal and her lies and the loss recent scandal and her lies and the loss of 33,000 emails.
But it wasn't a loss of 33,000 emails, but it wasn't a loss of 33,000 emails, but it wasn't a loss. She discarded that in itself is a major, she discarded that in itself is a major, she discarded that in itself is a major crime. Other people have been paying crime, other people have been paying crime. Other people have been paying tremendous prices for what they've done, tremendous prices for what they've done, tremendous prices for what they've done, which is peanuts compared to what - which is peanuts compared to what - which is peanuts compared to what happened with Hillary Clinton.
33,000 happened with Hillary Clinton, 33,000 happened with Hillary Clinton. 33,000 emails are missing and that's okay, emails are missing and that's okay, emails are missing and that's okay didn't give them to. The FBI didn't give, didn't give them to. The FBI didn't give - didn't give them to the FBI didn't give them to the Attorney General and that's them to the Attorney General and that's them to the Attorney General and that's okay, okay, okay.
Wipes her server clean, that's okay. Wipes, her server clean, that's okay. Wipes, her server clean, that's okay. These are crimes, these are crimes and these are crimes, these are crimes and these are crimes, these are crimes and how she got away with it. I think I - how she got away with it, I think I - how she got away with it, I think I understand it, but I think a lot of understand it, but I think a lot of understand it, but I think a lot of people don't.
But I do believe while she people don't, but I do believe while she people don't, but I do believe while she didn't pay the price, she should have - didn't pay the price. She should have - didn't pay the price, she should have paid. She's going to pay that price when paid, she's going to pay that price when paid, she's going to pay that price.
When November 8 rolls around, she's going to November 8, rolls around. She's going to November 8, rolls around. She's going to pay it at the polls. I believed pay it at the polls, I believed pay it at the polls. I believed a job of everything else. Hillary made a job of everything else. Hillary made a job of everything else.
Hillary made twenty one point, six million dollars, twenty one point, six million dollars. Twenty one point six million dollars giving speeches to special interests in giving speeches to special interests in giving speeches to special interests in a short period of time, a short period of time, a short period of time, she's totally owned by Wall Street.
We - she's totally owned by Wall Street. We - she's totally owned by Wall Street. We believe in Americanism. She believes in believe in Americanism. She believes in believe in Americanism. She believes in globalism. And it's not that she believes globalism and it's not that she believes globalism and it's not that she believes in it.
The people that give her all of in it, the people that give her all of in it. The people that give her all of this money believe in it and she'll this money believe in it. And she'll this money believe in it. And she'll believe in whatever they want her to believe in whatever they want her to believe in whatever they want her to believe, believe me, that's it what a believe, believe me, that's it what a believe, believe me, that's it.
What a difference between crooked Hillary difference between crooked Hillary difference between crooked Hillary Clinton and Mike Pence. Mike Pence will Clinton and Mike Pence. Mike Pence will Clinton and Mike Pence. Mike Pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our never be afraid to speak. The name of our never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy: radical Islam, radical Islamic enemy radical, Islam, radical Islamic enemy radical Islam, radical Islamic terrorism.
You saw it the other day with terrorism, you saw it the other day with terrorism. You saw it. The other day with the truck screaming out the window you, the truck screaming out the window you, the truck screaming out the window, you heard what he was screaming out the heard what he was screaming out, the heard what he was screaming out the window.
You saw it in San Bernardino window, you saw it in San Bernardino window. You saw it in San Bernardino, you saw it at the World Trade Center, you - you saw it at the World Trade Center, you - you saw it at the World Trade Center. You saw it in Orlando, how horrible was that, saw it in Orlando, how horrible was that, saw it in Orlando, how horrible was that?
You saw it in Paris, you see it all over, you saw it in Paris, you see it all over, you saw it in Paris, you see it all over and Hillary is a weak person. We are the - and Hillary is a weak person. We are the - and Hillary is a weak person. We are the Law. Problem in Texas with a certain religious leader and he did this and he religious leader and he did this and he religious leader and he did this and he got it done and we're gonna undo it.
So got it done and we're gonna undo it. So got it done and we're gonna undo it so that that that religious leaders in this country and religious leaders in this country and religious leaders in this country and those unbelievable people and not those unbelievable people and not those unbelievable people and not because they Backed me in such large because they backed me in such large because they backed me in such large numbers.
But so that religion can again numbers. But so that religion can again numbers. But so that religion can again have a voice because religions voice has have a voice because religions voice has have a voice because religions voice has been taken away and we're gonna change been taken away and we're gonna change been taken away and we're gon Na change that, okay, all right, back to Mike Pence.
So one of the primary reasons I chose, so one of the primary reasons I chose. So one of the primary reasons I chose Mike was I looked at Indiana and I won. Mike was I looked at Indiana and I won. Mike was - I looked at Indiana and I won Indiana big, remember Indiana was gonna, Indiana big, remember Indiana was gonna, Indiana big.
Remember Indiana was gonna be the firewall. That's where Trump was be the firewall. That's where Trump was be the firewall. That's where Trump was going down. They agreed at Wynn, New York going down. They agreed at Wynn, New York going down. They agreed at Wynn New York. I'd win Pennsylvania win all these place.
I'd win Pennsylvania win all these place. I'd win. Pennsylvania win all these place. But Indiana was gonna be the firewall, so - but Indiana was gonna be the firewall. So - but Indiana was gonna be the firewall. So I got to study Indiana and I got to - I got to study Indiana and I got to - I got to study Indiana and I got to study in New York and a lot of other study in New York and a lot of other study in New York and a lot of other places and I saw how NAFTA signed by places and I saw how NAFTA signed by places and I saw how NAFTA signed by Bill Clinton has drained our Bill Clinton has drained our Bill.
Clinton has drained our manufacturing jobs, just drained us like manufacturing jobs just drained us like manufacturing jobs just drained us like we've never been drained before. NAFTA we've never been drained before. NAFTA we've never been drained before. NAFTA again signed by Bill Clinton. NAFTA is again signed by Bill Clinton.
NAFTA is again signed by Bill Clinton. NAFTA is the worst economic deal in the history, the worst economic deal in the history, the worst economic deal in the history of our country manufacturing down in of our country manufacturing down in of our country manufacturing down in some states, 55 60 %. It's a horror show some states 55, 60 %. It's a horror show some states 55, 60 %. It's a horror show moving to Mexico, moving to other places, moving to Mexico, moving to other places.
Moving to Mexico, moving to other places, I have a friend who's a great builder. I have a friend who's a great builder. I have a friend who's a great builder, what he builds his plans. That's only what he builds his plans. That's only what he builds his plans. That's only does this bill plans. He doesn't build, does this bill plans?
He doesn't build, does this bill plans? He doesn't build buildings, he doesn't. But he builds buildings, he doesn't. But he builds buildings, he doesn't. But he builds plants. It's the biggest in the world plants, it's the biggest in the world plants. It's the biggest in the world. From what I hear, I said, how's business I - from what I hear, I said how's business I - from what I hear, I said how's business.
I was with him the other day. How's was with him the other day? How's was with him the other day? How's business business business? It goes unbelievable. I said really well. It goes unbelievable. I said really well. It goes unbelievable. I said really well. I'm surprised why is it unbelievable? I'm surprised why is it unbelievable?
I'm surprised why is it unbelievable because I think of him his building in because I think of him his building in because I think of him his building in this country. He said Donald what we're this country. He said Donald, what we're this country. He said Donald, what we're doing in Mexico, you won't believe so doing in Mexico, you won't believe so doing in Mexico, you won't believe so.
What do you mean? He said we're building - what do you mean? He said we're building - what do you mean? He said we're building plants in Mexico, the likes of which plants in Mexico, the likes of which plants in Mexico, the likes of which we've never seen. I said what about this? We've never seen. I said what about this?
We've never seen. I said what about this country, not much, not much, that's the country, not much, not much. That's the country, not much, not much. That's the expression he said exactly that not much expression. He said exactly that, not much expression. He said exactly that, not much I said, but Mexico, he said you've never - I said but Mexico, he said you've never, I said but Mexico, he said you've never seen anything like it seen anything like it seen anything like it.
It's incredible folks that's going to - it's incredible folks that's going to - it's incredible folks that's going to stop, stop, stop, we're gonna go reverse it. We're going to - we're gonna go reverse it. We're going to - we're gonna go reverse it. We're going to bring our jobs back to this country. We bring our jobs back to this country.
We bring our jobs back to this country. We beat the stupid people anymore, okay, and beat the stupid people anymore, okay, and beat the stupid people anymore. Okay. And he was better than a pollster. He's - he was better than a pollster. He's - he was better than a pollster. He's better than a consultant.
I'll say how better than a consultant, I'll say how better than a consultant, I'll say how are we doing and you get a big report, are we doing and you get a big report, are we doing and you get a big report that cost you millions of Dollars does that cost you millions of dollars, does that cost you millions of dollars?
Does it cost? Me me? I give him $ 10,000. Okay, it cost me me, I give him $ 10,000. Okay, it cost me me, I give him $ 10,000. Okay. Of course, other people, millions cost of course other people, millions cost of course other people, millions cost, other campaigns, millions to get a report, other campaigns, millions to get a report, other campaigns millions to get a report every time they get a report, it's every time they Get a report, it's every time they get a report, it's millions, but I'll tell you what a guy millions, but I'll tell you what a guy millions.
But I'll tell you what a guy like this is better than anybody you can like. This is better than anybody. You can like this is better than anybody you can hire to do a report. And he said, if he hire to do a report and he said if he hire to do a report and he said, if he didn't say it from the standpoint of - didn't say it from the standpoint of - didn't say it from the standpoint of he's upset about It just fact how we - he's upset about it just fact how we - he's upset about it just fact how we doing unbelievable in Mexico, fact he doing unbelievable in Mexico, fact he doing unbelievable in Mexico fact, he actually said I've never ever seen - actually said I've never Ever seen actually said I've never ever seen anything like it and if you look Ford is anything like it and if you look Ford is anything like it and if you look Ford is building massive plants there instead of building massive plants there instead of building massive Plants there instead of Michigan, we want him to build them in Michigan.
We want him to build them in Michigan. We want him to build them in Michigan. They're gonna build them in Michigan. They're gonna build them in Michigan. They're gonna build them in Michigan and you know that I know how to Michigan and you know that I know how to Michigan and you know that I know how to do that.
So easy so easy, but they're not do that. So easy so easy, but they're not do that so easy, so easy, but they're not gonna do and they're not gonna take gonna do and they're not gonna take gonna do and they're not gonna take advantage of us without retribution advantage Of us without retribution advantage of us without retribution, there are consequences.
When you fire there are consequences when you fire. There are consequences when you fire thousands of people and move to another thousands of people and move to another thousands of people and move to another country. And then think you're going to country and then think you're going to country and then think you're going to make your product and sell it in here, make your product and sell it in here, make your product and sell it in here.
There are consequences. And those - there are consequences and those - there are consequences and those consequences are going to keep companies, consequences are going to keep companies, consequences are going to keep companies in our country. It's very simple. And in our country, it's very simple. And in our country, it's very simple and everybody here knows what the - everybody here knows what the - everybody here knows what the consequences are.
But I won't say that consequences are, but I won't say that consequences are. But I won't say that because I'm much more interested, right, because I'm much more interested, right, because I'm much more interested right now in Mike now in Mike. Now in Mike, Indiana's unemployment rate and this is Indiana's unemployment rate and this is Indiana's unemployment rate.
And this is the primary reason I wanted my other - the primary reason I wanted - my other - the primary reason I wanted my other than he looks very good other than he's - than he looks very good other than he's - than he looks very good other than he's got An incredible family, credible wife, got an incredible family, credible wife got an incredible family, credible wife and family.
Karen is crazy credible for me, highly respected, credible for me, highly respected, credible for me, highly respected, expected to go for another four years. He expected to go for another four years, he expected to go for another four years. He would have won I think very easily in would have won I think very easily in would have won I think very easily in Indiana, Indiana, their unemployment rate, Indiana, Indiana, their unemployment rate, Indiana, Indiana, their unemployment rate has fallen when he was there when he has Fallen when he was there, when he has fallen when he was there when he started 8.4 percent when he was governor started 8.4 percent when he was governor started 8.4 percent when he was governor and when he took over to less than 5 % in.
And when he took over to less than 5 % in and when he took over to less than 5 % in May of 2016, May of 2016, May of 2016 since January 2013, since January 2013, since January 2013, Indiana's labor force has increased by Indiana's labor force, Has increased by Indiana's labor force has increased by more than 186 thousand jobs.
You have to more than 186 thousand jobs. You have to more than 186 thousand jobs. You have to understand, I've gone around to all these understand, I've gone around to all these understand. I've gone around to all these things. I've gone to all of them and things I've gone to all of them and things I've gone to all of them and every time I have statisticians, I say every time I have statisticians, I say every time I have statisticians.
I say give me this status on the state and give me this status on the state and give me this status on the state and it's always bad down, down, down, down 40 %. It's always bad down, down, down, down 40 %. It's always bad, down, down, down, down 40 %, 50 %, 60 %. In some cases, here's somebody, 50 %, 60 %. In some cases, here's somebody, 50 %, 60 %. In some cases, here's somebody where it's gone up, private-sector job where it's gone up, private-sector job where it's gone up.
Private-sector job growth is up by more than one hundred. Growth is up by more than one hundred. Growth is up by more than one hundred and forty-seven thousand jobs since 2013 and forty-seven thousand jobs since 2013 and forty-seven thousand jobs since 2013. That's like very unusual governor Pence. That's like very unusual governor Pence.
That's like very unusual governor Pence balanced the budget. Can you imagine a balanced the budget, can you imagine a balanced the budget? Can you imagine a balanced budget, our budget, so out of balanced budget, our budget, so out of balanced budget, our budget so out of whack in this country, we don't know what whack in this country.
We don't know what whack in this country. We don't know what we're doing. We're going to very soon 21 we're doing - we're going to very soon 21 we're doing - we're going to very soon 21 trillion dollars. He balanced the budget trillion dollars, he balanced the budget trillion dollars. He balanced the budget.
They don't know what that means, they don't know what that means. They don't know what that means. Governor pence balance the budget, governor pence balance, the budget, governor pence balance. The budget produced a surplus and maintains a two, produced a surplus and maintains a two, produced a surplus and maintains a two billion dollar reserve fund in the state billion dollar reserve fund in the state billion dollar reserve fund in the state of Indiana.
It's also rated triple-a of Indiana, it's also rated triple-a of Indiana. It's also rated triple-a. Their bonds are rated triple-a, very few. Their bonds are rated triple-a, very few. Their bonds are rated triple-a, very few states have that triple-a. The best states have that triple-a. The best states have that triple-a the best that's as good as you can get, whether that's as good as you can get, whether that's as good as you can get whether your company is a triple-a, Indiana was your company, is a triple-a, Indiana was your company, is A triple-a Indiana was recently recognized by chief executive recently recognized by chief executive recently recognized by chief executive magazine as the number one state in the magazine as the number one state in the magazine as the number one state in the Midwest for business number one.
And it's Midwest for business, number one and it's Midwest for business, number one, and it's not even close, not even close, not even close. There are approximately 34,000 fewer. There are approximately 34,000 fewer. There are approximately 34,000 fewer Hoosiers on unemployment insurance, now Hoosiers on unemployment insurance.
Now Hoosiers on unemployment insurance now than they were when Mike Pence took than they were when Mike Pence took than they were when Mike Pence took office. So you have fewer Hoosiers, fewer office, so you have fewer Hoosiers, fewer office. So you have fewer Hoosiers, fewer people from Indiana, people from Indiana people from Indiana and besides that Bobby Knight, my friend and besides that Bobby Knight, my friend and besides that Bobby Knight, my friend who really did help me, I mean if you who really did help Me, I mean if you who really did help me, I mean if you want a reference, Bobby Knight in Indiana want a reference.
Bobby Knight in Indiana want a reference Bobby Knight in Indiana. We love Bobby Knight, but he agrees with - we love Bobby Knight, but he agrees with - we love Bobby Knight, but he agrees with everything I'm saying. He loves the - everything I'm saying. He loves the everything I'm saying. He loves the governor.
Indiana has the second lowest governor, Indiana has the second lowest governor. Indiana has the second lowest unemployment rate in the nation for unemployment rate in the nation for unemployment rate in the nation for veterans where nobody's fighting for the veterans where nobody's fighting for the veterans where nobody's fighting for the veterans like I'm fighting for the veterans.
Like I'm fighting for the veterans, like I'm fighting for the veterans, the veterans have been left veterans. The veterans have been left veterans. The veterans have been left behind. If you remember a few months ago behind, if you remember a few months ago behind, if you remember a few months ago, Hillary Clinton said that really they're Hillary Clinton said that really they're Hillary Clinton said that really they're doing much better.
The VA is much better, doing much better. The VA is much better, doing much better. The VA is much better. They're doing a much better job than they're doing a much better job than they're doing a much better job than people give it credit for people are people give it credit for people are people give it credit for people are dying online, waiting four, five, six days Dying online waiting four, five, six days dying online, waiting four, five, six days for doctors.
People are dying for doctors. People are dying for doctors, people are dying, they can't even see a doctor. It's a - they can't even see a doctor. It's a - they can't even see a doctor, it's a scandal, take a look at what's happening scandal, take a look at what's happening scandal, take a look at what's happening with the VA in Arizona, take a look at with the VA in Arizona, take a look at With the VA in Arizona, take a look at what's happening with what you know, just what's happening with what you know, just what's happening with what you know, just two Veterans Administration, hospitals, two Veterans Administration, hospitals, two Veterans Administration hospitals, it's a scandal, it's corrupt, its - it's A scandal, it's corrupt, its - it's a scandal, it's corrupt, its incompetent incompetent incompetent, it's a scandal and Hillary Clinton.
It's a scandal and Hillary Clinton. It's a scandal and Hillary Clinton thought it was just fine and boy, am I thought it was just fine and boy, am I thought it was just fine and boy, am I going to win big with the veterans I going to win big with the veterans I Going to win big with the veterans, I mean we know that for a fact, so it's now 2.4 % for veterans in 2013. So it's now 2.4 % for veterans in 2013. So it's now 2.4 % for veterans in 2013 when Mike Pence took office.
The rate for when Mike Pence took office, the rate for when Mike Pence took office, the rate for veterans was 6.7, it was 31st. In the veterans was 6.7, it was 31st. In the veterans was 6.7, it was 31st in the nation, one of the bad ones. And now it's nation one of the bad ones and now it's nation one of the bad ones and now it's almost the best, got him jobs, got him almost the best, got him jobs, got him almost the best, got him jobs, got him jobs.
Indianapolis is ranked second in jobs, Indianapolis is ranked second in jobs. Indianapolis is ranked second in top ten metro areas for young college, top ten metro areas for young college, top ten metro areas for young college graduates. That's a great thing. They're graduates, that's a great thing. They're graduates, that's a great thing.
They're gonna stay there. That's a great thing, gonna stay there, that's a great thing. Gon na stay there, that's a great thing and Mike worked hard on that. He was and Mike worked hard on that. He was and Mike worked hard on that. He was telling me that was not easy under telling me that was not easy under telling me that was not easy under governor Pence's leadership, Indiana governor, Pence's leadership, Indiana governor, Pence's leadership, Indiana enacted the largest k-12 education enacted.
The largest k-12 education enacted the largest k-12 education funding increase in the state's history, funding increase in the state's history funding increase in the state's history. So you're balancing budgets and yet, so you're balancing budgets and yet, so you're balancing budgets and yet you're giving more money to education, you're giving more money to education, you're giving more money to education.
It's not a great thing. Indiana has just about the largest. Indiana has just about the largest, Indiana has just about the largest school choice program in America school school choice program in America school school choice program in America school choice is where it's at. Folks you want choice is where it's at.
Folks you want choice is where it's at, folks you want to get your schools better, you've got to, to get your schools better, you've got to, to get your schools better. You've got to get rid of Common Core fast governor, get rid of Common Core fast governor, get rid of Common Core fast governor Pence enacted the largest income tax cut Pence enacted the largest income tax cut Pence enacted the largest income tax cut in the state's history.
Think of that in the state's history, think of that in the state's history. Think of that we're cutting taxes and balancing. We're cutting taxes and balancing. We're cutting taxes and balancing budgets and along with corporate tax budgets and along with corporate tax budgets and along with corporate tax reform just about number one in the reform, just about number one in the reform, just about number one in the country, CNBC ranked Indiana first In the country, CNBC ranked Indiana first in the country, CNBC ranked Indiana first in the nation for its infrastructure, so with nation for its infrastructure, so with nation for its infrastructure.
So with all of these cuts and all of these - all of these cuts and all of these - all of these cuts and all of these balancing budgets were spending more balancing budgets were spending more balancing budgets, were spending more money on education and the money on education. And the money on education and the infrastructure is kept up that had - so infrastructure is kept up that had - so infrastructure is kept up that had so much look as a builder, nobody in the much look as a builder, nobody in the much look as a builder, Nobody in the history of this country has ever known history of this country has ever known history of this country has ever known so much about infrastructure.
As Donald so much about infrastructure as Donald so much about infrastructure as Donald Trump I build infrastructure, do I know Trump, I build infrastructure, do I know Trump, I build infrastructure? Do I know how to build a wall? Do I know how to - how to build a wall? Do I know how to - how to build a wall?
Do I know how to build infrastructure? You know it's very build infrastructure. You know it's very build infrastructure. You know, it's very interesting. We're building. We're interesting we're building, we're interesting, we're building, we're building, I won building, I won building, I won the - which is pretty amazing than the - the - which is pretty amazing than the - the - which is pretty amazing than the Obama administration.
But I won the right Obama administration. But I won the right Obama administration, but I won the right to have the old post office building on to have the old post office building on to have the old post office building on Pennsylvania Avenue right near the White Pennsylvania Avenue right near the White Pennsylvania Avenue, right near the White House and it's an amazing probably the House and it's an amazing probably the House and it's an amazing, probably the best location, what are the most sought, best location, what are the most sought, best location, what are the most sought after projects In the history after projects in the history after projects in the history, the GSA general services and I really the GSA general services and I really the GSA general services and I really like what's happened like what's happened like what's happened.
We're gonna have an opening very soon. We're gonna have an opening very soon. We're gonna have an opening very soon. Ivanka and Eric and Don did a fantastic Ivanka and Eric and Don did a fantastic Ivanka. And Eric and Don did a fantastic job on it, but I thought the other day I job on it, but I thought the other day I job on it.
But I thought the other day I was going over, the numbers we were under was going over. The numbers we were under was going over the numbers. We were under budget and about a year actually more budget and about a year actually more budget and about a year actually more than a year. But we're a year ahead of than a year, but we're a year ahead of than a year, but we're a year ahead of schedule and were under budget schedule and were under budget schedule and were under budget substantially.
And the quality of the substantially and the quality of the substantially and the quality of the work is even better than we originally work is even better than we originally work is even better than we originally were going to do. And when I explain to a were going to do and when I explain to a were going to do and when I explain to a government representatives that we're government representatives that we're government representatives that we're under budget and ahead of schedule.
They under budget and ahead of schedule, they under budget and ahead of schedule. They almost fell off because they've never almost fell off because they've never almost fell off because they've never heard those words before. They've never heard those words before. They've never heard those words before.
They've never - so when I see what happened to Indiana, so when I see what happened to Indiana. So when I see what happened to Indiana, which was having tremendous problems which was having tremendous problems which was having tremendous problems. When I see what happened to Indiana when I see what happened to Indiana when I see what happened to Indiana under Mike's work also his predecessor under Mike's work also his predecessor under Mike's work also his predecessor did a great job by the way did a great Job, by the way, did a great job, by the way, great job, who's now a Duke, who's now at great job, who's now a Duke, who's now at great job, who's now a Duke, who's now at Purdue.
When I see what happened with Purdue, when I see what happened with Purdue, when I see what happened with respect to the numbers, the state and respect to the numbers, the state and respect to the numbers, the state and everything else. That to me was probably everything else that to me was probably everything else.
That to me was probably the single most important point because the single most important point because the single most important point because it's something that hasn't happened. It's something that hasn't happened. It's something that hasn't happened almost has not happened in this whole almost has not happened in this whole almost has not happened in this whole country.
The turnaround and the strength country, the turnaround and the strength country, the turnaround and the strength of Indiana has been incredible. And I of Indiana has been incredible and I of Indiana has been incredible. And I learned that when I campaigned there and learned that when I campaigned there and learned that when I campaigned there.
And I learned that when I won that state in, I learned that when I won that state in, I learned that when I won that state in a landslide, and I learned that when a landslide, and I learned that when a landslide and I learned that when Governor Pence under tremendous pressure, governor Pence under tremendous pressure, governor Pence under tremendous pressure from establishment.
People endorse from establishment, people endorse from establishment, people endorse somebody else, but it was more of an somebody else, but it was more of an somebody else. But it was more of an endorsement for me. If you remember he endorsement for me. If you remember he endorsement for me. If you remember, he talked about Trump, then he talked about, talked about Trump, then he talked about, talked about Trump.
Then he talked about Ted, who's a good guy by the way, who's Ted, who's a good guy by the way, who's Ted, who's a good guy, by the way, who's - but going to be speaking at the - but going to be speaking at the - but going to be Speaking at the convention, Ted Cruz good guy, but he convention Ted Cruz good guy, but he convention Ted Cruz good guy, but he talked about Trump.
Ted, anyone back to talked about Trump. Ted, anyone back to talked about Trump Ted, anyone back to drop. I said who did he into us, so even drop, I said who did he into us? So even drop, I said who did he into us. So even though he was under pressure because I'm though he was under pressure because I'm though he was under pressure because I'm so on, you know, outside of the - so on, you know, outside of the - so on, you know, outside of the establishment it was the single Greatest establishment, it was the single greatest establishment, it was the single greatest non endorsement they've ever had a non endorsement they've ever had a non endorsement they've ever had a moment.
Okay, I will tell moment. Okay, I will tell moment, okay I will tell. So with that I would like to introduce a so with that I would like to introduce a so. With that I would like to introduce a man who I truly believe will be man who I truly believe will be man who I truly believe will be outstanding. In every way and will be the outstanding in every way and will be the outstanding in every way and will be the next vice president of the United States.
Next vice president of the United States, next vice president of the United States Governor Mike Pence. Thank you. Thank you. Governor Mike Pence. Thank you. Thank you, Governor Mike Pence. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you on behalf of my everybody. Thank you on behalf of my everybody. Thank you on behalf of my family here and looking on, would you family here and looking on, would you family here and looking on, would you join me in thanking Donald Trump Melania join me in thanking Donald Trump Melania join me in thanking Donald Trump Melania and His entire family for the sacrifices and his entire family for the sacrifices and his entire family for the sacrifices that they are making to make America that they are making to make America that they are making to make America great again, great.
Again, great again and I thank Donald Trump for the - and I thank Donald Trump for the - and I thank Donald Trump for the confidence you've placed in us and I confidence you've placed in us and I confidence you've placed in us and I accept your invitation to Run and serve accept your invitation to run and serve, accept your invitation to run and serve as vice president of the United States as vice president of the United States as vice president of the United States of America.
You know, I come to this of America, you know, I come to this of America, you know I come to this moment deeply humbled, but with a moment deeply humbled but with a moment deeply humbled, but with a grateful heart, grateful heart, grateful heart. Mr. spend. Other side, this man and his mr. spend other side, this man and his mr.
spend other side, this man and his family out of the limelight. I know what family out of the limelight. I know what family out of the limelight. I know what all of America will soon know, even all of America will soon know even all of America will soon know even better. These are good people better. These are good people better.
These are good people. Donald Trump is a good man and he will. Donald Trump is a good man and he will. Donald Trump is a good man and he will make a great president of the United, make a great president of the United, make a great president of the United States of America. Donald Trump understands the Donald Trump, understands the Donald Trump, understands the frustrations and the hopes of the frustrations and the hopes of the frustrations and the hopes of the American people like no leader since American people like no leader since American people like no leader since Ronald Reagan, the American people are Ronald Reagan.
The American people are Ronald Reagan. The American people are tired. We're tired of being told. We're tired. We're tired of being told. We're tired. We're tired of being told. We're tired of being told that this is as good tired of being told that this is as good tired of being told that this is as good as it gets as it gets - as it gets.
We're tired of having politicians in - we're tired of having politicians in. We're tired of having politicians in both parties in Washington DC tell us both parties in Washington DC tell us both parties in Washington DC tell us we'll get to those problems tomorrow and we'll get to those problems tomorrow and we'll get to those problems tomorrow.
And as Ronald Reagan said, we're tired of - as Ronald Reagan said, we're tired of - as Ronald Reagan said, we're tired of being told that a little intellectual being told that a little intellectual being told that a little intellectual elite in a far distant capital can plan elite In a far distant capital can plan elite in a far distant capital can plan our lives better for us than we can plan our lives better for us than we can plan our lives better for us than we can plan them for ourselves.
Donald Trump gets it them for ourselves. Donald Trump gets it them for ourselves. Donald Trump gets it and he understands the American people and he understands the American people and he understands the American people. I truly am deeply humbled to be at his. I truly am deeply humbled to be at his - I truly am deeply humbled to be at his side today and when I got this call last side today and when I got this call last side today and when I got this call last Wednesday, I could only Think of that Wednesday, I could only think of that Wednesday.
I could only think of that ancient question, Who am I - Oh Lord and ancient question, Who am I - Oh Lord and ancient question, Who am I? Oh, Lord and who is my family that you have brought, who is my family that you have brought, who is my family that you have brought us this far. So let me try and answer us this far.
So let me try and answer us this far. So let me try and answer that question for a few minutes now that question for a few minutes. Now that question for a few minutes. Now people who know me well, know, I'm a people who know me well, know, I'm a people who know me well, know, I'm a pretty basic guy. I'm a Christian, a pretty basic guy.
I'm a Christian, a pretty basic guy. I'm a Christian, a conservative and a Republican in that conservative and a Republican in that conservative and a Republican in that order. And while I'm currently, I currently have - and while I'm currently, I currently have, and while I'm currently, I currently have the privilege of serving the state that the privilege of serving the state that the privilege of serving the state that I love.
I'm really - I'm really just a - I love - I'm really - I'm really just a - I love - I'm really - I'm really just a small-town boy who grew up in southern small-town boy who grew up in southern small-town boy who grew up in southern Indiana with a big family. And a Indiana with a big family and a Indiana with a big family and a cornfield in the backyard like Donald cornfield in the backyard like Donald cornfield in the backyard like Donald Trump, my grandfather immigrated to this Trump my grandfather immigrated to this Trump.
My grandfather immigrated to this country and in many ways I grew up with country and in many ways I grew up with country and in many ways I grew up with a front row seat to the American Dream I a front row seat to the American Dream. I a front row seat to the American Dream, I watched my mom and dad build everything, watched my mom and dad build everything, watched my mom and dad build everything that matters, a family, a business and a that matters a family, a business and a that matters.
A family, a business and a good name, the heroes of my youth were good name. The heroes of my youth were good name. The heroes of my youth were John F Kennedy and the Reverend dr. John F Kennedy and the Reverend dr. John F Kennedy and the Reverend, dr. Martin Luther King, jr, I actually Martin Luther King, jr.
I actually Martin Luther King jr. I actually started in politics in the other party, started in politics in the other party, started in politics in the other party. But when I came of age, I was inspired by, but when I came of age, I was inspired by. But when I came of age, I was inspired by the ideals and the eloquence of our 40th, the ideals and the eloquence of our 40th, the ideals.
And the eloquence of our 40th president and I became a Republican, no president and I became a Republican, no president and I became a Republican, no sportin thing in my life was at 31 years. Sportin thing in my life was at 31 years. Sportin thing in my life was at 31 years ago, I married the girl of my dreams ago, I married the girl of my dreams ago.
I married the girl of my dreams, Karen pence, who will make a great second, Karen pence, who will make a great second. Karen pence, who will make a great second lady of the United States of America and lady of the United States of America and lady of the United States of America. And while this office is an extraordinary while this office is an extraordinary while this office is an extraordinary office to which to aspire the highest office to which to aspire the highest office to which to aspire, the highest role I will ever play is d-a-d.
And I'm a role I will ever play is d-a-d and I'm a role I will ever play is d-a-d. And I'm a proud father of a college student, a proud father of a college student, a proud father of a college student, a graduate turned writer and a United graduate turned writer and a United graduate turned writer and a United States Marine States, Marine States Marine.
You know my career I ran for Congress, you know my career I ran for Congress, you know my career I ran for Congress before the Republican revolution led by before the Republican revolution led by before the Republican revolution led by Newt Gingrich in 1994. I wasn't Newt Gingrich in 1994, I wasn't Newt Gingrich in 1994. I wasn't successful by the time I got elected to successful.
By the time I got elected to successful by the time I got elected to Washington DC, sometimes I felt like I Washington DC, sometimes I felt like I Washington DC sometimes I felt like I was elected after it was over from - was elected after it was over From was elected after it was over from almost my first day in Congress.
I found almost my first day in Congress, I found almost my first day in Congress, I found myself battling the big spenders in both myself battling the big spenders in both myself battling the big spenders in both political parties, whether opposing No political parties, whether opposing No Political parties whether opposing No Child Left Behind the prescription Child Left Behind the prescription Child Left Behind the prescription entitlement with Wall Street bail Mont entitlement with Wall Street bail Mont entitlement with Wall Street bail Mont bailout.
I fought every single day for bailout. I fought every single day for bailout. I fought every single day for taxpayers and fiscal responsibility when taxpayers and fiscal responsibility when taxpayers and fiscal responsibility. When I was a member of the Congress of the - I was a member of the Congress of the - I was a member of the Congress of the United States and after the Republicans United States and after the Republicans United States and after the Republicans lost the Congress.
In 2006, I was actually lost the Congress in 2006, I was actually lost the Congress in 2006. I was actually unanimously elected to serve in unanimously elected to serve in unanimously elected to serve in leadership and we fought back against leadership and we fought back against leadership and we fought back against the Nancy Pelosi Congress.
We opposed the Nancy Pelosi Congress. We opposed the Nancy Pelosi Congress, we opposed Obamacare, we opposed their tax increases, Obamacare, we opposed their tax increases, Obamacare, we opposed their tax increases. We opposed their cap-and-trade. And I was - we opposed their cap-and-trade and I was - we opposed their cap-and-trade.
And I was part of the team that won the Congress part of the team that won the Congress part of the team that won the Congress back from Democrat control in 2010 and back from Democrat control in 2010 and back from Democrat control in 2010. And all that happened before I went back, all that happened before I went back.
All that happened before I went back home again home again home again to Indiana, but I want to say I answered to Indiana, but I want to say I answered to Indiana. But I want to say I answered this call for two reasons. First, because this call for two reasons. First, because this call for two reasons.
First, because I know from firsthand experience that I know from firsthand experience that I know from firsthand experience that strong Republican leadership can bring strong Republican leadership can bring strong Republican leadership can bring about real change. Just like we've seen about real change just like we've seen about real change just like we've seen in the Hoosier State and secondly in the Hoosier State and secondly in the Hoosier State.
And secondly, because Hillary Clinton must never because Hillary Clinton must never because Hillary Clinton must never become President of the United States of become President of the United States of become President of the United States of America. Yeah, on the first point, I know what I'm on the first point, I know what I'm on the first point, I know what I'm talking about, you know, in Indiana we talking about, you know, in Indiana we talking about, you know, in Indiana we prove every day You can build a growing, prove every day you can build a growing, prove every day you can build a growing economy on balanced budgets, low taxes, economy on balanced budgets, low taxes, economy on balanced budgets, low taxes even while making record investments in even while making record Investments in even while making record investments in education, roads and health care, we like education, roads and health care.
We like education, roads and health care. We like to say Indiana's a state that works and to say Indiana's a state that works and to say Indiana's a state that works and it does. Indiana works because Republican, it does Indiana works because Republican, it does Indiana works because Republican principles work.
Every time you put them principles work, every time you put them principles work every time you put them into practice. Today we have a two into practice. Today. We have a two into practice today. We have a two billion dollar surplus and the highest billion dollar surplus and the highest billion dollar surplus and the highest credit rating in the nation.
And since I credit rating in the nation and since I credit rating in the nation and since I became governor whose your businesses became governor whose your businesses became - governor whose your businesses large and small have created nearly a large and small, have created nearly a large. And small have created nearly a hundred and fifty thousand net new jobs, hundred and fifty thousand net new jobs, hundred and fifty thousand net new jobs.
And we have more Hoosiers going to work and we have more Hoosiers going to work and we have more Hoosiers going to work than ever before in the 200 year history than ever before in the 200 year history than ever before in the 200 year history of The great state of Indiana, of the great state of Indiana, of the great state of Indiana, that's what Republican leadership gets, that's what Republican leadership gets.
That's what Republican leadership gets you. And let me say from my heart, that's you. And let me say from my heart that's you and let me say from my heart, that's what the no-nonsense leadership of what the no-nonsense leadership of what the no-nonsense leadership of Donald J. Trump will bring to Washington.
Donald J Trump will bring to Washington. Donald J. Trump will bring to Washington DC, but elections are about choices DC, but elections are about choices DC, but elections are about choices, elections are about choices and I also elections are about choices and I also elections are about choices and I also join this ticket because the Choice join this ticket because the choice join this ticket because the choice could not be more clear.
The stakes could - could not be more clear. The stakes could could not be more clear. The stakes could not be higher. Americans can choose a not be higher, Americans can choose a not be higher. Americans can choose a leader who will fight to make America leader, who will fight to make America leader, who will fight to make America safe and prosperous again and bring real safe and prosperous.
Again and bring real safe and prosperous again and bring real change or we can elect someone who change or we can elect someone who change or we can elect someone who literally personifies the failed literally personifies the failed literally personifies the failed establishment in Washington DC seven.
And establishment in Washington DC, seven and establishment in Washington DC, seven and a half years of Barack Obama and Hillary. A half years of Barack Obama and Hillary. A half years of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton's policies have weakened. Clinton's policies have weakened. Clinton's policies have weakened.
America's place in the world and stifled America's place in the world and stifled America's place in the world and stifled our nation's economy, terrorist attacks, our nation's economy, terrorist attacks, our nation's economy, terrorist attacks at home and abroad, the grim and at home and abroad. The grim and at home and abroad, the grim and heartbreaking scenes from France, just a heartbreaking scenes from France, just a heartbreaking scenes from France just a few short days ago.
The attempted coup in few short days ago the attempted coup in few short days ago the attempted coup in Turkey all attest to a world spinning Turkey all attest to a world spinning Turkey all attest to a world spinning apart. History teaches us that weakness apart. History teaches us that weakness apart.
History teaches us that weakness arouses evil, Hillary Clinton and Barack arouses evil, Hillary Clinton and Barack arouses evil. Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama's foreign policy of leading from Obama's foreign policy of leading from Obama's foreign policy of leading from behind behind behind moving red lines.
Feigning resets with a moving red lines. Feigning resets with a moving red lines, feigning resets with a resurgent Russia. And the rise of Isis is resurgent Russia and the rise of Isis is resurgent Russia. And the rise of Isis is a testament to this truth of history and a testament to this truth of history and a testament to this truth of history.
And we must bring a change to America's, we must bring a change to America's. We must bring a change to America's stand in the world. We cannot have four stand in the world. We cannot have four stand in the world. We cannot have four more years apologizing to our enemies, more years. Apologizing to our enemies more years, apologizing to our enemies and abandoning our friends America needs and abandoning our friends America needs and abandoning our friends.
America needs to be strong for the world to be safe. On to be strong for the world to be safe on to be strong for the world to be safe on the world stage, Donald Trump will lead the world stage. Donald Trump will lead the world stage. Donald Trump will lead from strength. He will rebuild the from strength he will rebuild the from strength.
He will rebuild the arsenal of democracy, stand with our arsenal of democracy, stand with our arsenal of democracy, stand with our allies and hunt down and destroy the allies and hunt down and destroy the allies. And hunt down and destroy the enemies of our freedom and at home and enemies of our freedom and at home and enemies of our freedom and at home and at home.
The choice is just as clear at home. The choice is just as clear at home. The choice is just as clear where Donald Trump wants to cut taxes where Donald Trump wants to cut taxes where Donald Trump wants to cut taxes. Hillary Clinton plans to raise taxes on Hillary Clinton plans to raise taxes on Hillary Clinton plans to raise taxes on working families, small businesses and working families, small businesses and working families.
Small businesses and family farms where Donald Trump is family farms where Donald Trump is family farms, where Donald Trump is committed to repeal Obamacare, lock stock, committed to repeal Obamacare, lock stock, committed to repeal Obamacare, lock stock and barrel Hillary Clinton looks at and barrel. Hillary Clinton looks at and barrel.
Hillary Clinton looks at Obamacare as a good start and wants to Obamacare as a good start and wants to Obamacare as a good start and wants to take Bernie Sanders path down to take Bernie Sanders path down to take Bernie Sanders path down to single-payer socialized medicine. Where single-payer socialized medicine, where single-payer socialized medicine, where Donald Trump supports an Donald Trump supports an Donald Trump, supports an all-of-the-above strategy and will end all-of-the-above strategy and will end all-of-the-above strategy and will end the war on coal.
Hillary Clinton, actually the war on coal. Hillary Clinton, actually the war on coal. Hillary Clinton actually promised an energy plan that would close, promised an energy plan that would close, promised an energy plan that would close American coal mines and put coal miners, American coal mines and put coal miners, American coal mines and put coal miners out of work.
Where Donald Trump wants to out of work where Donald Trump wants to out of work where Donald Trump wants to build a wall and temporarily suspend, build a wall and temporarily suspend, build a wall and temporarily suspend immigration from countries, compromised immigration from countries, compromised immigration from Countries compromised by terrorism, Hillary Clinton plans to by terrorism, Hillary Clinton plans to by terrorism.
Hillary Clinton plans to ignore the Supreme Court reimpose ignore the Supreme Court. Reimpose ignore the Supreme Court reimpose executive amnesty and would increase executive amnesty and would increase executive amnesty and would increase increase our refugee program by more increase our refugee program by more increase our refugee program by more than 500 % and where Donald Trump will than 500 % and where Donald Trump will than 500 % and where Donald Trump will appoint justices like the late Antonin appoint justices like the late Antonin appoint justices like the late Antonin Scalia who will uphold our Constitution Scalia who will uphold our Constitution Scalia who will uphold our Constitution Hillary Clinton will appoint Supreme.
Hillary Clinton will appoint Supreme. Hillary Clinton will appoint Supreme Court justices, who will legislate from Court justices, who will legislate from Court justices, who will legislate from the bench, abandon the sanctity of life, the bench, abandon the sanctity of life, the bench abandon the sanctity of life and rewrite our second amendment To and rewrite our second amendment to and rewrite our second amendment to every American, every American, every American who shares our convictions.
I say to you who shares our convictions. I say to you who shares our convictions. I say to you join us for the sake of our security for join us for the sake of our security for join us for the sake of our security, for the sake of our prosperity, for the sake the sake of our prosperity. For the sake, the sake of our prosperity for the sake of a Supreme Court that will never turn of a Supreme Court that will never turn of a Supreme Court that will never turn its back on our god-given liberties.
Its back on our god-given liberties. Its back on our god-given liberties, let's come together as a party and a, let's come together as a party and a let's come together as a party and a people and a movement to make America people and a movement to make America people and a movement to Make America great again and that day begins when great again and that day begins when great again and that day begins.
When Donald Trump becomes the 45th president Donald Trump becomes the 45th president Donald Trump becomes the 45th president of the United States of America. Thank of the United States of America, thank of the United States of America. Thank you for the honor. Thank you for your you for the honor. Thank you for your you for the honor.