Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Speaks at a Social Media Summit at The White House|July 11, 2019
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Please sit down. I want to thank you all for being here. Very special day, very important day. Many of you are friends and many of you are friends that I don't know what you look like but I know what you sound like -- -- which I guess is probably more important, right?
But I want to thank you and it's a terrific -- it's a terrific day to be together and if you look you are in a very famous place. We all work very hard and I don't know if you call it influence, I don't if you call it power but whatever it is we are in the White House and we are going to stay in the White House and we are going to get our agenda done and completed beautifully.
[Inaudible] So I am thrilled to welcome you here and we are all working very hard and I don't if you know but we just hit 27,000 on the Dow, that's the highest in history. We are up a couple of hundred points today. The highest in history for those of you that like the stock market. The stock market means jobs; I view it as jobs and I view it as 401(k)s. When the people say oh, the rich people are getting rich but if you look at the numbers the greatest impact proportionately is blue-collar workers in what is happened in this miracle that is happening.
And people with 401(k)s, they are up 72 percent and 67 percent and the wife or the husband whoever is responsible the other one says you're a genius, you're a great financial investor. Darling you're up 77 percent this year. So a lot of good things happen. A lot of people are happy and I think really everybody is happy, some people just aren't willing to admit it. Does that make sense?
So this is a historic day. Never before have so many online journalist and influencers and that is exactly what you are, you are journalists and you are influencers come together in this building to discuss the future of social media. Each of you is fulfilling a vital role in our nation. You are challenging the media gatekeepers in the corporate sensors to bring the facts straight to the American people and that is what you are doing.
You were going right to the people possibly we wouldn't be here right now. I asked somebody what do you think I would do without social media? Would I be here because I said I think so but they weren't so sure. I have to say that you know that. I'm not sure I believe that but I have to say it. But you communicate directly with our citizens without having to go through the fake news filter, very simple.
Together you reach more people than any television, broadcast network by far, not even close. We are delighted to be joined at the summit by someone you know very well, our senior advisor for digital strategy and somebody that has been working for me for a long time, for many years, Dan Scavino. Where is Dan?
Stand up. So long before we were even doing this he was at a club, running a club and other businesses and he was okay at doing it, not the greatest. I wouldn't say the greatest but you know what he was great at, he was always looking at his computer screen. I said that guy's incredible so right at the beginning I said that the man and there's nobody better at that and I think Hillary had 28 people and I had Dan.
Right? I had my Dan and he works at about 28 hours a day and he works very hard. He doesn't work. I mean he loves it. He loves it. And his imagination and really working with all of you and many of you will come up with ideas and you will come up with ideas and he will run into my office and so you got to see this.
And a lot of times I will go out I will spend a lot of money on a concept. I will say here's a concept come up with this and we will hire these companies and they want a lot of money and they come back, just happened the other day, right? I said that's terrible; these guys have no talent. The people that have a talent are the people that we deal with and it's true and some of you are extraordinary.
Can't say everybody. No, but some of you are extraordinary. The crap you think of is unbelievable. Unbelievable. So I'm going to go back to the basics of Washington. I'm going to introduce some of my secretaries. Steve Mnuchin. Where Steve? Steve has done a fantastic job. Wilbur Ross. Wilbur. We have a meeting in a little while on the census and citizenship.
Can you believe are you a citizen of the United States of America. Sir, you can't ask that question. Why? Because the court said you can't. We have three very unfriendly courts. They fight us all of the way; the judges don't like us too much I guess. But think of that. Herman , think of that question. Are you a citizen?
We spend -- this is another thing that so crazy $20 billion on a census, $20 billion, they spent $20 billion. I said 20 billion what? $20 billion on a census. They go through houses. They go up, they ring doorbells, they talk to people. How many toilets do they have? How many desks, how many beds, what is their roof made of? The only thing we can't ask is are you a citizen of the United States.
Is that the craziest thing? $20 billion. Pretty amazing. Pretty amazing, Charlie. Also David Bernhardt, great job you are doing, interiors. He's the largest landlord in the United States. When my friends tell me how big they are -- I just bought another building. Big deal Kevin , right? They bought another building.
Then I look at David Bernhardt he controls half of the United States; Department of Interiors, a lot of land, a lot of beautiful and that we are taking good care of, David, right? Acting Director Russ Vought. Russ, thank you. Great job. We are working on our budget along with some of the great members of Congress and wonderful friend of mine who's my leader, right?
He's my leader. I tell him that to his face because it makes him feel good. I don't know if I believe that Marshall but Kevin, stand up, Kevin. Kevin McCarthy everybody. Senator Marsha Blackburn of the great state of Tennessee; we campaigned together. And she [Inaudible] , we can say it now, she ran against the most popular Democrat in the last 50 years, he really was good man, right?
And Governor for quite a long time, eight years and she just didn't stop.
[Inaudible]
She was down by 10 and she won by 12. That's right. She was down by 10 and she won by 12 and she wouldn't stop. Every day, where is she? She's here, she's there. Fantastic job you did we are proud of you. Well, thank you, honey. That's great. It was just honestly working with people that know what they are doing it's fun.
That was fun and you know what you are doing. Representative Dan Crenshaw who was very good at this by the way, Dan, very good at this, really good. Thank you. It's great to have you in the party and you have more courage than I do, Dan. Okay. That courage of yours is incredible. Thank you very much. Great job.
A friend of mine and a wonderful person and somebody that has I don't know pretty unlimited future I would say. I hear a lot of very positive things, Liz Cheney. Liz, thank you. And you know I pardoned somebody named Scooter Libby. A lot of you don't know who Scooter Libby is, Scooter Libby is a man that got treated very unfairly and Liz was right in the forefront of that one and I said what do you think Liz and you said absolutely he deserves it and it's been a very popular pardon.
He was treated very, very brutally and unfairly. So thank you for that, for that help. Matt Gaetz, where is Matt? Stand up, Matt. Boy, a great defender he gets on television and he's like it doesn't stop and he's smart and he's good and he loves Florida and he loves his people and he's a hard worker. And Matt thank you very much.
I really appreciate it very much. And Mike Johnson. Mike, thank you. Great job, Mike. And I want to thank a man who I said a long time ago when we said let's do it because Josh Hawley is special. He is somebody that I said Josh you got to run. Well, I don't know. You know he had a good set up pretty well, right?
You weren't going anywhere; he could do whatever he wanted in his great state unless I'm telling you can do it and she turned out -- she's a tough candidate whether you like her or you don't like her -- she's tough, right? And by the end of that that was incredible. That was a hell of a race and he won and he's young and he's brilliant and I'm going to ask him to come up and say a few words if you don't mind about what we are doing and come on up right now I think it would be a good time.
Thank you. Thank you. Well, first of all, can we just give another round of applause to the President of the United States for his leadership on this issue? You know, the media -- the media says, the establishment media, the fake media, they say, "Oh, there's no censorship in social media. That's all made up. That's all fake." You and I know that that's not true.
You and I know the truth is that the social media giants would love to shut us down. They would love to shut us up. They would love to shut him up more than anything else, and we can't let them. And that's why we need to step up now and I think we need to say to them here's the deal, Google, Facebook, Twitter, they've gotten the special deals from government.
They've gotten a special giveaway from government. They are treated unlike anybody else. If they want to keep their special deal, here's the bargain, they have to quit discriminating against conservatives. You agree with that? No more. No more discrimination. It's that simple. That's all we're asking for.
They ought to abide by the same principles of free speech and the First Amendment that this country embraces that we love and call our own. And I don't think it's too much to ask for these huge tech platforms who've gotten rich off of our information, right, off of our data, off of everything we've given them, they got rich off of it, they got rich off of their special privileges from government.
They want to keep those, they shouldn't discriminate, they shouldn't censor, they shouldn't shut us down. To make the President to give her his incredible leadership. Thank you for allowing me to be here. Thank you, Mr. President, for all that you do.
And you know, Josh is doing right now, he's doing some very important legislation because we have to do something about what is happening. I never hear about the other side. I could tell you I think I'm pretty good at getting out a message, but technologically I would think I'm okay, just okay. But I will tell you a lot about things are happening.
I people come up to me, "Sir, we want to follow you. They don't let us on." And it was so different than it was even six, seven months ago. I was picking up unbelievable amounts of people and I'm hotter now than I was then, okay? Because you know you also cool off, right? But much hotter -- Especially with the nice new stock market like it is, right?
But no, I'm hotter now and I go to Dan, I say, "Hey, what's going on here? It used to take me a short number of days to pick up 100,000 people. I'm not complaining. We're like at 60 some odd million, but then we have 5 different sites and we have another site with 25 million we have another site with 10 or 12, then we have Facebook, then we have Instagram.
We have a lot. We have a lot of people, way, way over 100 million, but I use to pick them up and I -- when I say used to, I'm talking about a few months ago. I was picking them up 100,000 people every very short period of time. Now it's, I would say, 10 times as long. And I noticed things happening when I put out something, a good one that people like Right?
A good tweet, it goes up. It use to go up, it would say 7000, 7008-7000, 7017, 7024, 7032, 70444, right? Now it goes 7000, 7008, 6998. Then they go 7009, 6074. I say, "What is going on? It never did that before." It goes up and then they take it down, then it goes up. I had never had that. Does anyone know what I'm talking about with this?
I never had that before. I used to watch it. It would be like a rocketship when I put out a beauty. Like when I said -- remember I said somebody was spying on me? That thing was like a rocket I get a call two -- two minutes later, "Did you say that?" I said, "Yeah, I said that." "Well, it's exploding." "It's exploding." I turned out to be right.
I turned out to be right. We turn out to be right about a lot of things. But -- but I never had it. I'm just saying from, you know, from the standpoint of -- of somebody that maybe has used social media better than anybody, Josh, because I became president. I'm sure I could've done it, as we said, much -- I would have -- there's no question I would've done it either way.
I said to Mark Burnett the other day, so I said, "So the Apprentice. Had I never done the Apprentice," because it was a tremendous hit for 12 seasons, I said, "Had I never done the Apprentice, would I be president?" He said, "Maybe not." And I said, "I think I would have." But I'm always going to say that.
I'm always going to say it. But it was a great show. But with social media -- so I've never seen it before where I go up and then come down. Up, down. Up, down. Now ultimately, you get -- but it goes very slowly. But I've never seen where it's subtracted. And I really believe people are -- they're taking it up as it goes up. And it -- and it -- sometimes it comes down substantially.
A number of months ago I was at a certain number. You know, many millions, and then all of the sudden, I was down over a million, and then I came down. I said, "What's going on?" And you checked, Dan, and you said, "They say they're doing adjustments. They say they don't like some of the people." And I don't have the fake people.
You know, a lot of people buy people. I don't want to do that because first of all, if I did it, it's a front-page story all over the place. But I know a lot of people, there's no question about it, because I see some numbers that are phony numbers where they have these, you know, many, many millions of followers.
I say there's no way because nobody has any interest in these people. There's -- they have no -- now, Herman Cain, they have interest in, okay? But they have no interest in these people. They're playing games. They're playing games. James Woods. I don't know James, but he's an interesting guy and he's a conservative guy and he's a straight shooter.
He's tough. But then when they want to take him off and other people like him, many in this room, some in this room, it's a very, very bad -- it's a very bad thing. So I have many millions of followers across various accounts, and together, everyone in this room, we reach over half a billion followers. And I think that's probably a low number because one of the things I get that's a little benefit, I'll go watch like I did Golan Heights.
I gave Israel the -- the real credit over and -- and -- you know, it's Golan Heights and Israel. Very important. But I gave representation in the strongest form of the Golan Heights, Israel. I talked about it a little quickly. They've been looking at it for 52 years they've been trying to get it. They couldn't get it. They'd have many summits where people would fly in, talk about the Golan Heights, and then fly out.
This went on many, many summits. It's about a 52-year period. I said, "What happened?" They said, "Nothing. They fly in, they fly out." Some had beautiful planes, some didn't. Some probably didn't get there by plane, but they have many summits. I said, "Watch, I'm going to do this." And I said, "We recognize the Golan Heights as being part of Israel." It was a big thing.
I go, "Watch this." Boom. I press it, and within two seconds, "We have breaking news." John Roberts of Fox was over it. He said, "We have breaking news. Please, break it up." It doesn't matter what they're talking about, John, does it? He breaks it up. Now, that's Twitter. That social media. I call Twitter a typewriter.
That's what I really call Twitter because it goes on to Facebook automatically and it goes on to Instagram and it goes on to television, more so Fox than it does CNN. If it's something bad, they'll put it on. If I have a spelling deal, they will put it on. "Donald Trump spelled the word 'the' wrong." You know?
He doesn't know how to spell 'the.' He spelled it T-H-I. You know, I couldn't care -- any kind of a punctuation mistake, they put it on. So I'm very, very careful. I -- really -- I'm actually a good speller. But everyone said the fingers aren't as good as the brain. But -- but it is true and it's -- it's incredible what it does.
I put a social media statement. And I was telling Kellyanne the other what day, I said, "You know, I used to put out like a press release, right? And people would pick it up, sort of." You know, next day, two days, they'd find it sitting on a desk. If I put out -- we hardly do press releases anymore because if I put out on social media a statement like I'm going to in a little while on something totally unrelated but a very important statement -- now they're going crazy.
What is it? Tell me what. Watch. But it's very important. But if I put that out in a press release, I'm telling you, Kevin, people don't pick it up. It's me -- same. If I put it out on social media, it's like an explosion. Fox, CNN, crazy MSNBC, they're stone cold crazy. I made them a lot of money with the Apprentice and I gave them a top show when they were dying on NBC, but they don't like me too much.
They wanted a big extension. The used Arnold Schwarzenegger instead. Big movie star. You know what? He died. He died. I was there 12 -- 12 years, 14 seasons, and then they pick a movie actor and he dies on us. You know, I own that with -- with Mark Burnett and some people and I said -- they said, "Would you rather have him had been like this tremendous massive success, you own it, so you benefit financially, or would you rather have him die so that you say you did it for 14 seasons, 12 years?" I said, "I think I'd rather have him die at it."
That means you don't need the money. I'd rather have them [Inaudible]. Anyway, but with amazing creativity and determination we are bypassing the corrupt establishment and it is corrupt, and you are bypassing the very, very corrupt media, which not all of it is but much of it is far greater percentage than anyone would understand as the cameras go off they go the red lights look.
Boom. I can always tell. I can always tell. Be in the stadium the red lights are all on and then we start talking about like the media how dishonest it is how corrupt it is, how fake it is and the lights go off. The lights immediately go off and usually immediately come back they say this guy is impossible.
But I want to just say because you people have a lot of courage each and every one of you I say thank you very much on behalf of a nation thank you very much. It's important what you're doing. In many cases, the honest the hones word out. Not in all cases but in many cases. When historians look back at this time they will see that the biggest new stories of this era are totally ignored.
I -- I can tell you that I deal with the media and the spin they put on it or the -- sometimes they leave it out or there is something slightly negative they will make it headline news. They will put it down as headline news. Or even covered up by media they were broken up by citizens or take a look at what is happening or you see stories that should be phenomenal, big beautiful, stories and it turns out that they don't get covered.
We did something yesterday on kidney and kidney dialysis and there's a tremendous number of people with problems with kidneys. And with Secretary Azar it was a big, big important thing. Got very little coverage. And what we did it was such a great thing and I don't care we don't have to get the -- it's good for our nation.
It's good for people to read about it and see the strides we have made in what we're doing. But that doesn't get covered and it should get covered. And it doesn't get covered for a reason because they don't want to give that to a conservative. They don't' want to let that happen. Now if somebody else were in this position such as the previous administration they would make that headline news all over the place what we did yesterday.
But when we're doing it we get very little credit to that. But anything bad that happens I always say they can take bad and make it horrible. They can take a good story and make it sort of bad and they can take a great, great story and make it anywhere from good to slightly bad. It's incredible what they can do. I always say I haven't had a good story in two and a half years.
I used to get great press. Steve Banuchi knows. He said, man, you get the greatest press until I got deleted. Then it's done. But I used to get the greatest press. Possibly one of the reasons I'm here. And we get it out in a different way. I didn't think we would have to try. I didn't think it would be this tough and by the way two of those special people I have to say hello to -- to because my wife said I see these two beautiful women, incredible African American women that are on television.
The are unbelievable. This is two years ago. She was before her time. They have no idea who I am talking about. She was, our first lady said you have to see these women. They're incredible. They're genius and they like you. I said, I want to see them. And I like them. I love them actually, I love them. Come.
So, when the historians look back they are going to see something very important took place right here-before today it took place -- it started taking place a number of years ago and it is something that nobody ever thought would happen. Free speech is a bed rock of American life our Constitutional rights must be forcibly protected and I want you to know that we will always have your back.
We are fighting for you very hard. We are going to be calling a big meeting of your companies for in a week or two that have to be here. And Josh is really leading a very strong group of people. This isn't just Josh. This is you leading a tremendous group and they feel equally as strongly as you because they see the unfairness that's happening.
And, remember we won. We have a bigger voice than anybody. But we don't get covered fairly. Can you imagine if we were covered fairly? We had our best polls like yesterday they were telling me. I said can you imagine if I actually got good press instead of even fair press, I don't want good I want fair. Can you imagine what those numbers would be? They make up stories -- you know the Russian hoax, I call it the Russian hoax, the witch hunt.
All bad publicity and yet we are doing great in the polls. So people understand that the public is very smart but we are getting the word out about so many things not just that. About so many things. And maybe the most important thing about how great our country is doing. Jobs now more people working today than ever in the history of our country.
Everyone in the history of our country. Think of that. Unemployment the best numbers in 51 years for African American the best numbers in our history -- in our history. Right? Including you. And you're making a lot I hope. But Hispanic American, best numbers in history. Stand up. And I like your dress as well very much.
No. Not you, sir. You. Thank you. I saw you the other day. Fantastic job. But Hispanic American the best in history. Asian American the best in history. Women I think [Inaudible] , the best in 75 years. The best -- best unemployment in 75 years. What we're doing it's nothing like has this has been done. Our military is now stronger when I took it over it was depleted.
We had planes that were so old they couldn't fly. They had to go to the desert to get parts. When we took it over it was not a good situation. We got $700 billion then $716 billion and we are going to be asking for another one this year and it's all manufactured in the United States. We make it ourselves.
And that's always good that's jobs you know, in this case jobs aren't important compared to military defense. We make the best planes and rockets and military defense in the world. Nothing like it. And we are doing something that is incredible. Our military is strong. Our -- our country is really powerful and really strong.
Never been like this. Whoops. How did a flag get into the White House. I don't like flies. I don't like flies. So, I just want to tell you just in finishing up we had a terrible bias. We had censorship like nobody had any understanding and nobody can believe. When you see the Google executives together and one of their executives decides to put it on the phone, right?
That's right. Thank you. There he is. Thank you. Stand up, please. Stand up. How good -- what a great job. Somebody said he's controversial. He's not controversial. He's truthful. He's truthful. That was a great job. That was one of many. Thank you. Thank you very much. Fantastic. So, you know, they're playing with -- with a lot of minds and they're playing unfairly.
And the funny thing is that in theory -- in theory they shouldn't be liking the other side. They shouldn't be liking the other side -- they should be really liking our side because we're the ones that want freedom you see what's happening up on the debate stand you see what they are doing to each other. You see the hate they have up there.
It is a very different philosophy. It is a very different thought. And I say this the election that is coming up is I think and you know, we talked 2016 and I would say maybe that's the most important and certainly I said it but what we are really fighting for there has never been a difference of this candidate, our candidate, your candidate against whoever it may be. There will never be anything like that hopefully again because what they are looking at is pure socialism.
Or worst than socialism. You know, there's a work called communism too. There's a word called -- they don't like to use it. Very rarely do you hear that. But there's a word called communism and they're trying to get socialism over the line. But these people are -- this is beyond socialism to a larger extent and I think we are going to have a tremendous success.
We had a sort of an opening rally in Orlando, Florida. We had 109,000 maybe more I think it was one and two come we were doing as much as we could to keep people not from coming. We had a 21,000 seat stadium and then with the basketball court it held way more than that. It was packed. We had a similar number outside.
And we had thousands and thousands of people that wanted to be there and this was an opening and this was like a Biden they said he had 600 -- that wasn't 600 that was 150 people. That was 150 that was a very small crowd. And even the big crowds if they have 100 that's a big crowd. We have enthusiasm that's far greater than the left.
It's not even a contest. They won't even say that. They never will say that. We had on the mall just the other day the fourth of July a tremendous success it was pouring. The weather was just -- it was beautiful in one way. Orlando was my [Inaudible] that day.
Because I was drenched. Well, that is the one good thing. Iran and they learn it's my hair because I've been through every windstorm, sandstorm. Let's go over here, let's go this one, that one, this desert, let's go to this ocean and get out of the plane sir the wind is blowing about 70 miles an hour. I said boy, it's got to be mine But we've seen it all.
We've seen it all and I will tell you what more than anything else I have met great people. I have met great people, dedicated people and I think that the election coming up, Kevin this is the most important election of our times. This is an election were our country is going to go one way or it's going to head in the direction of Venezuela and that's what's going to happen.
That's what's going to happen. This green new deal and you know I hate to speak badly of it right now because it's a little early. I spoke too early on Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren. I should have saved it but you know I don't like to go to early because I don't want it to change. I like the green new deal.
I want them to keep going. I don't want them to make -- you know the problem with this business they can make a change and eat immediately upon making the it last for about a week you look at for instance on the wall Chuck Schumer was totally in favor of a wall, right, Liz? Totally in favor. Everybody, Hillary, everybody.
They were all in favor of a wall just a few years ago. Now a wall is -- well, that's okay. They want open borders, they want people to pour in including criminals and worst criminals. They want people to pour into our country. Nobody can tell me that's good politically. Nobody can tell me. So all Americans regardless of their political beliefs or affiliations they've got a right to speak their mind.
That includes them, that includes them but they don't have the same difficulty. They don't get shot out. I wrote a few terms, I said to my son Don who's here somewhere. Where are you, Don? He's very good, Kimberly. Don. People like Don. Good. Thank you, Don. But road out a few -- shadow ban 100 percent you look at what's going on. You know I could go with a block in just a place sick blocking of what we want to get out.
The fact that they don't let them join, they don't, there's no doubt in my mind then I should have millions and millions -- I have millions of people, so many people I wouldn't believe it that I know we have been blocked. People come up to me and they say sir, I -- I can't follow you. They make it impossible.
These are people that are really good at what they do. They say they make it absolutely impossible and you know we can't have it. We are not going to let it happen. Josh we are not going to let it happen and you know if they did it on both sides and if it were done to the other side, to the other group and I am representing everybody, I do. I represent everybody.
I fully understand liberal, I fully understand Democrat. We want to get along, we want to make sure everybody loves each other if that is possible and maybe I really believe it is. Someday it will be. I -- guy for a file have said that the thing that is going to bring us together is great success. Now we have tremendous success, greater than we have ever had before.
I mean our country picked up trillions of dollars in value and where is China has gone down trillions of dollars, the tariffs have hurt them. I don't want to hurt them but I want them to give us a fair playing field but China has gone down trillions, we have gone up not billions, trillions. We have gone up in value and worth.
I want everybody to do well but they've got to treat us fairly. They've got to treat -- everybody has to be treated fairly their side, our side. We all have to be treated fairly and you know the farmer say we just want a level playing field, sir. I love the farmers. They are patriots and China as you know targeted the farmers because they think they could get to me by hurting the people that I love and that we take care of and had no effect.
I would watch even on networks that don't exactly like me and I would watch as they interview farmers and they wouldn't have 10 or 12 people sitting around they would say we don't care, the President is right, we have been ripped off for many years, somebody has to do -- somebody had to do this. China made over the last 10 years hundreds of billions of dollars, you could say $400 billion, $500 billion a year.
That is not sustainable, that is not -- we built China and you know what they have done a great job, I don't blame them. I blame our former presidents and the leaders of our country for allowing this to go on ever since the world trade organization opened up. They allowed this to go on. They allowed hundreds of billion dollars a year to be taken out of our country and to be used to rebuild China.
So those days are over. So right now they are paying 25 percent on $250 billion, a lot of money coming in. You know we had a 3.2 GDP for the first quarter. I would say I wonder how that happened because the first quarter is the weakest quarter [Inaudible] almost our weakest and we had this great quarter but I don't consider 3.2 great, I consider much higher and frankly if we had lower interest rates we are forced to pay more money than other countries because we have a rate that is high, we have somebody that likes raising rates.
I think he is maybe going to change but we will find out but if we had lower we would have another 10,000 points. We just sent a record. You know I'm a very greedy person. We just set a record 27,000. I said we could do 10,000 points higher. We could be 10,000 because there's no inflation. The big thing is inflation, there is no inflation but we are doing so well we are going to keep it that way so I just want to introduce because a person that I have admired for a long time, he's a great lawyer Harmeet Dhillon, and she's one of the leading First Amendment lawyers in our country and Harmeet could you come up just say a few words please?
Thank you.
Thank you Mr. President It is a tremendous honor to be here with a lot of people who I really respect and admire. The corrupt establishment that you talked about and the mainstream media have told a lot of people in this room that the social media censorship and they banning that we are experiencing is all in our heads, they are gas sliding us with this line.
Let me tell you about a couple of people I represent in my loft practice and the civil rights work that we do. David Horowitz is a great American who is a supporter of yours, has been for many decades. Well, twitter abruptly de-platformed him one day, took him off, said he was band and then he complained and they let him back on and then the next name they did the exact same thing to him.
That's not an accident. James Damore is another great American who are represent. Mr. Damore complained internally about Google's discriminatory practices against conservatives and push for more ballots. Natalie was he fired for daring to do that but then the social media platforms used their platforms to humiliate him publicly, weapon eyes their platforms and make sure that he could not get a job in Silicon Valley.
That is a disgrace but it goes beyond that. The social media CEOs come to Congress in front of the [Inaudible] members of Congress here and they have lied about what they do. They have lied about the data theft, they have lied about the media manipulation and they can't get away with that. Now Sen. Blackburn knows from what happened to her on twitter that these companies are trying to stop the ordinary men and women who you represent from hearing their voices.
I am very concerned that the effect of the outcome of the 2018 election and if we let them do what they have been doing it is going to affect the outcome of the 2020 election as well. So Mr. President thank you so much for inviting everybody here to talk about these issues and we are all behind you joining the fight to make sure that every Americans voices heard.
Thank you very much.
And what [Inaudible] said is so -- so true. It is really incredible. You know I have watched some of these things that have been taped and gotten through talented people by the way but gotten through and gotten to the public where you see the hatred of our party, of our people, of our voice and you say that's the collusion, bats the collision between the Democrats and the media and social media and these platforms.
It's -- it's a disgraceful thing and another thing I believe you are representing a young man who just got slogged viciously slogged I think it is a disgrace. Do you ever notice they pick on certain people? I mean he would tell you he's not the toughest person in the world physically, right? They don't go after bikers for Trump.
Did you ever notice that? They don't go after our construction workers who love us. They don't go after the police, they don't go after. You know we are the Ely. They say you ever I did better than all of them. Great education, the greatest but I guess I'm not elite. They live like in the basement of their mom's home.
Their arms are this big. Look, like this. But they have the black -- they have the masks on and they have sticks and they hit people. They had people in the face, in the head. This is [Inaudible] but did you ever notice antifa is never there when we have a bikers rally?
They are never there when the construction workers and the unions are honoring the president. There are never around. They're always there when you have a single guy protesting in front of a school. And as you probably know, I think all of you know, we did something very serious. I signed an executive order recently.
We are taking money away from those schools. We're going to -- You know, we give them billions and billions of dollars and they don't allow free speech. Now, we don't want anything special, but we want free speech. We were also joined by someone affected by this troubling bias very, very much. And president of Live Action and somebody I've watched, really, with great admiration, Lila, please come up. Lila Rose.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Mr. President It's really an honor to be here. Thank you for doing this important summit.
Thank you very much.
I represent Live Action. I'm the founder and president, and we are a pro-life organization which reaches millions of people every week with the truth about abortion and human dignity. We have been, for four years, banned from doing any advertising on Twitter. And they told us that in order to reinstate our accounts, we have to stop calling for the defunding of Planned Parenthood and stop sharing our pro-life content.
Meanwhile, Planned Parenthood and other abortion groups continue to advertise. Last month, we were permanently suspended from Pinterest, and they accused us of spreading conspiracy theories and misinformation with our pro-life content with no evidence. And then news media groups picked up the narrative and spread it around.
Meanwhile, abortion groups, including abortion clinics, post freely on Pinterest. And then recently, our videos have been viewed more -- more highly than almost any other abortion related content on YouTube, but YouTube -- we made it to the first page of search results, but YouTube buried our pro-life videos and boosted pro-abortion videos.
So there's a double standard and bias is a growing problem in big tech even though they say that they are politically neutral and they don't discriminate. They even testified before Congress and said that. So thank you so much...
Thank you...
...to the administration and to you, Mr. President, for holding this very important summit. Thank you.
Great job. Thank you very much.
So one of the advantages of being president is when you ask for a meeting, you get it, generally. I don't know, I can think of too many I haven't gotten. And you say I'd like to see you in the Oval Office, or you have somebody call Oval Office. I've been with all of these people at the highest-level one-on-one, just recently with Google and just recently with Twitter, the top, right?
And you talk to them and you swear there like your best friend. "Oh, sir, no, we are -- we believe we -- freedom of speech. Oh, yes. Absolutely." And we go out -- he says liar. Who said that? You must come from Queens. So -- so it's very interesting to see that and -- and the level of, you know, you look at them, the sincerity, and I say, "That's fantastic." And they'll leave and then I'll realize three or four weeks later, it's worse.
It's actually got worse. Because I say look, I believe in technology, I believe in free markets, I believe in freedom of speech, I believe in all the things, and -- and they are super genius. I'll tell you, I'm dealing with China and they admitted there's nobody like Silicon Valley. There's nobody smart in that sense, may be not smart and other senses, I've watched some of them speak before Congress, it's not pretty.
I said I could do much better than that. But I'll tell you what, technologically, it's unbelievable what they think of. Even Dan and I, when we sat with you know who at Twitter, number one -- We talked about certain things. He said, "Yeah, we could do this, this, this." I said "That's really great. You know, this is incredible stuff." China will admit there's nobody like these brains, but they are not using that brilliance and they're not using what we gave them fairly and they have to do that.
And we don't want to stifle anything. We certainly don't want to stifle free speech, but that's no longer free speech. See, I don't think that the mainstream media is free speech either because it's so crooked. It's so dishonest. So to me, free speech is not when you see something good and then you purposely write bad.
To me, that's a very dangerous speech, and you become angry at it. But that's not free speech. Some it came to my office, I won't say who, but a very big person and I said, "Okay, you don't like the term fake news," which I think I get credit for, but I'm sure if I said that I get credit, they'd say, "13 years ago someone to come up with that term fake -- " I think I get credit.
I'd be very proud to take it, but I think I get credit. Now, by the way, the worst fakers of all are using fake news. I saw the other day on CNN, total fakes, I see on CNN they go, "Fake news media has reported." No, no, no, they are fake news media. They've turned it around. They turned it around. So I'm not going to allow, and Josh and all of us, we're just not going to allow it to happen like this.
We're not going to be silenced. Two months ago, we created a new White House tool to report social media bias, censorship, and discrimination. We saw you folks being taken off and we fought on all of you and many of you are back now. But many of the names I won't mention your names, some -- some of you were taken off for absolutely no reason.
I mean, in all fairness, some of you I could almost understand. I mean, some of you guys are out there. But even you should have a voice. But some of you -- no, some of you deserve -- some of you. I mean, it's genius, but it's bad. But they take off people that, you know, that you wouldn't believe. And we received over 16,000 responses just in a tiny little period of time talking about this subject.
Based on the feedback that we are hearing from you, I'm announcing that we will ask representatives of the major social media platforms to join me at the White House over the next month, have a big meeting at a real conversation. We might want to invite some of you. I know Josh, we're going to have you and some of the senators.
And it's amazing how the senators, including Democrats, in all fairness, which is probably -- because I know it can turn on them also, it could turn very quickly. But they want to come, so we'll let you know the date, okay? And today, I'm directing my administration to explore all regulatory and legislative solutions to protect free speech and the free speech rights of all Americans.
That's you people in this room, and a lot of people out there. There are a lot of people. We hope to see transparency, more accountability, and more freedom. That's on both sides. This is not -- I am not speaking for our side assuming we're all -- I don't even know if you're on our side. You could be some of the most liberal people in the world in this audience and that's okay.
I don't care. But we're talking about for everybody. Big tech must not censor the voices of the American people. To all of the social media influencers here today, a lot of -- you have a lot of power and you have a lot of strength. As you know, you have to use it wisely. Many of you do, but you have to. I want to thank you once again for being here.
You're very special people. You're very brilliant people in so many cases. I look around the room. I mean, I see people that really have almost found a new life of the last short period of time with his new technology. But this new technology is so powerful and so important, and it has to be used fairly.
It has to be used fairly. So thank you all for being here, it's a great honor, a tremendous honor. We're going to take a few questions, I think, and then I'll head out and you're going to actually come, if you want. You can come to the great Rose Garden. You can stand in the rain with me. We're going to talk a little bit about the fact that we are not allowed to ask for whether or not somebody is a citizen on the census form, and I think we have a solution that will be very good for a lot of people.
Really good. Okay, any questions? Please. Oh, there he is. There's my guy.
Thank you, Mr. President
Good job. How is your new show going? Good?
Very well, thank you.
I heard good.
Thank you. Yes, indeed. America First, Salem Radio Network, Sebastian Gorka. We have half a billion people that we can access with you as well, and we thank you for the role that you played...
Thank you...
...In making sure that they try and stop throttling us...
That's okay. Don't worry. Fake news. There trying to -- they are trying to divert your attention.
What -- what message would you...
They're playing with your mind, Sebastian. That doesn't work too well with you. Let's go.