Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Des Moines, IA|August 27, 2016
[This was transcribed and punctuated by Factba.se's AI, Margaret, and automatically corrected based on her understanding of Donald Trump's speech patterns. It has not been edited by a human. Please double-check any quotes against the video.]
And I will so many good friends I become and I will so many good friends I become and I will so many good friends. I become friends with so many people in Iowa who friends with so many people in Iowa who friends with so many people in Iowa who love the people of the state. And I will love the people of the state and I will love the people of the state.
And I will tell you, Iowa is very fortunate to have tell you Iowa is very fortunate to have tell you Iowa is very fortunate to have some of the best. And most dedicated, some of the best and most dedicated, some of the best and most dedicated public servants in the country, including public servants in the country, including public servants in the country, including Governor Terry Branstad, lieutenant Governor Terry Branstad, lieutenant Governor Terry Branstad, lieutenant governor Kim Reynolds state GOP chairman, governor Kim Reynolds, state GOP chairman, governor Kim, Reynolds state GOP chairman; Jeff Senator, Chuck Grassley and of Jeff Senator, Chuck Grassley and of Jeff Senator, Chuck Grassley and of course the person I've gotten to know course.
The person I've gotten to know course. The person I've gotten to know very well who is a tremendous person very well, who is a tremendous person very well, who is a tremendous person senator Joni Ernst, that's very good, sir. You're very lot of that's very good, sir. You're very lot of that's very good, sir.
You're very lot of states would like to have that rest of states would like to have that rest of states would like to have that rest of living. I also want to take a moment to living. I also want to take a moment to living. I also want to take a moment to thank the bikers we have bikers in the thank the bikers we have bikers in the thank the bikers we have bikers in the audience and there are bikers quite audience and there are bikers quite audience and there are bikers Quite restrict our pile of the Bibles and restrict our pile of the Bibles and restrict our pile of the Bibles and they've been so good to me throughout.
They've been so good to me throughout. They've been so good to me throughout this campaign. So I just want to thank this campaign, so I just want to thank this campaign. So I just want to thank all of the bikers I really appreciated what a fantastic group of people we have, what a fantastic group of people we have, what a fantastic group of people we have and what a fantastic country we living and what a fantastic country.
We living and what a fantastic country we living more than anything more than anything more than anything more than anything more than anything more than anything today, I want to express my gratitude today. I want to express my gratitude today. I want to express my gratitude because all over the country we've had because all over the country we've had because all over the country we've had such tremendous support through our such tremendous support through our such tremendous support through our amazing veterans, a lot of memorable, amazing Veterans, a lot of memorable amazing veterans, a lot of memorable.
Thank you. Let you down believing they've thank you. Let you down believing they've thank you. Let you down believing they've been letting you down for many years. I been letting you down for many years. I been letting you down for many years. I will not let you down together. We're will not let you down together.
We're will not let you down together. We're going to win the state in November and going to win the state in November and going to win the state in November and we are going to win the White House for - we are going to win the White House for we are going to win the White House for the American people, the White House will soon become the - the White House will soon become the - the White House will soon become the people's house.
That's what it's going to people's house. That's what it's going to people's house. That's what it's going to be. We will tackle and fix the problems be we will tackle and fix the problems be we will tackle and fix the problems that have gone unsolved for many, many that have gone unsolved for many, many that have gone unsolved for many, many years.
Crumbling infrastructure broken borders, crumbling infrastructure, broken borders, crumbling infrastructure, broken borders, bloated bureaucracy, wasteful spending, bloated bureaucracy, wasteful spending, bloated bureaucracy, wasteful spending and a government that doesn't work it and a government that doesn't work it and a government that doesn't work.
It doesn't work. This is a campaign about big ideas. This is a campaign about big ideas. This is a campaign about big ideas, design will help everyday people design will help everyday. People design will help everyday people everyone story to help everyone these everyone story to help everyone. These everyone story to help everyone, these are the people who work hard but who are the people who work hard, but who are the people who work hard but who don't have a voice.
Their voice has been, don't have a voice. Their voice has been - don't have a voice, their voice has been taken away. It's also a campaign about taken away. It's also a campaign about taken away. It's also a campaign about restoring honesty and accountability to restoring honesty and accountability to restoring honesty and accountability to government.
And you see what I miss government and you see what I miss government and you see what I miss writing for them. The whole world has writing for them. The whole world has writing for them. The whole world has been stopped by the continuing been stopped by the continuing been stopped by the continuing revelations regarding Hillary Clinton revelations regarding Hillary Clinton, revelations regarding Hillary Clinton and are paying for play state the - and are paying for play state the - and are paying for Play state, the property and other things now that her property and other things now that her property and other things now that her important Cowen directors will not be important.
Cowen directors will not be important. Cowen directors will not be released even though they have them to released even though they have them to released even though they have them to the public until after the election, the public until after the election, the public until after the election. Because there's too much stuff on that because there's too much stuff on that because there's too much stuff on that they want to - after the election, it's - they want to - after the election, it's - they want to - after the election, it's only terrible.
It's protection from a only terrible - it's protection from a only terrible it's protection from a corrupt rigged system. It's disgusting, as I said many times in recent days. It's - as I said many times in recent days, it's - as I said many times in recent days, it's hard to tell where the tipping hard to tell where the tipping hard to tell where the tipping foundation ends and where the State foundation ends and where the State Foundation ends and where the State Department begins, that's what's happened.
Department begins, that's what's happened. Department begins, that's what's happened. That's written clearly what's happened that's written clearly what's happened that's written clearly what's happened said the Clinton flux in scandals, I've said the Clinton flux in scandals. I've said the Clinton flux in scandals, I've been really there for a long time and been really there for a long time and been really there for a long time.
And it's been sad - sad sad for America. The - it's been sad - sad sad for America. The - it's been sad - sad sad for America, the illegal circle, the foreign, the deleted illegal circle, the foreign, the deleted illegal circle, the foreign, the deleted of 3333 thousand good deleted emails of 3333 thousand good deleted emails of 3333 thousand good deleted emails 33,000. The secret schedulers, the lying 33,000, the secret schedulers, the lying 33,000, the secret schedulers, the lying to Congress.
It's all just too much. We're to Congress, it's all just too much. We're to Congress. It's all just too much. We're going to have a great victory on going to have a great victory on going to have a great victory on November 8th. I can tell ten voters think how much more. Thank You ten voters think how much more.
Thank You. Ten voters think how much more. Thank You, Hillary Clinton thinks she's entitled to. Hillary Clinton thinks she's entitled to Hillary Clinton, thinks she's entitled to be president by the way, stubborn bad. Be president by the way, stubborn bad. Be president, by the way, stubborn bad judgment, got very bad judgment judgment, got very bad judgment judgment, got very bad judgment even if she faces that since I've been even if she faces that since I've been even if she faces that since I've been judgment, she thinks He's above the law judgment.
She thinks he's above the law judgment. She thinks he's above the law so far. She's proven that. But the truth so far, she's proven that. But the truth so far, she's proven that. But the truth agency opposite her criminal conduct at agency opposite her criminal conduct at agency opposite her criminal conduct at home and her failed interventions home and her failed interventions home and her failed interventions overseas.
Simply make her unfit. She's overseas, simply make her unfit. She's overseas. Simply make her unfit, she's unfit to serve the Oval Office, I believe unfit to serve the Oval Office, I believe unfit to serve the Oval Office. I believe that America is ready to turn the page that America is ready to turn the page that America is ready to turn the page of this very sordid past.
We don't want of this very sordid past. We don't want of this very sordid past. We don't want another four years of Obama or Clinton, another four years of Obama or Clinton, another four years of Obama or Clinton controversies cannot only grieve. This controversies cannot only grieve. This controversies cannot only grieve this, but frankly, they're exhausting our - but frankly, they're exhausting our - but frankly, they're exhausting our people.
How do you even keep up with it, people? How do you even keep up with it, people? How do you even keep up with it all? How do you do their time of the all - how do you do their time of the all - how do you do their time of the stage, but now it's time to close that stage, but now it's time to close that stage.
But now it's time to close that chapter. There's three books and open a chapter. There's three books and open a chapter. There's three books and open a brand-new beautiful chapter. That is why this is such an exciting. That is why this is such an exciting. That is why this is such an exciting year to be a Republican to vote year, to be a Republican to vote year, to be a Republican to vote, Republican willing to do great job.
This Republican willing to do great job this Republican willing to do great job. This year, the GOP is offering the voters year the GOP is offering the voters year the GOP is offering. The voters intends to break up the corrupt intends to break up the corrupt, intends to break up the corrupt establishment and create American future.
In my opinion, this is our last chance I - in my opinion, this is our last chance I - in my opinion, this is our last chance. I really believe that this chance will really believe that this chance will really believe that this chance will never come. Again, never come again, never come again. I remember justices of the Supreme Court, I remember justices of the Supreme Court, I remember justices of the Supreme Court.
Remember though this term it will never remember though this term, it will never remember though this term it will never ever come again, will never happen today, ever come again will never happen today, ever come again will never happen today. I really believe you're not gonna have - I really believe you're not gonna have - I really believe you're not gonna have your saw opportunity.
Again, the big your saw opportunity. Again the big your saw opportunity. Again, the big donors who want nothing to change are donors who want nothing to change are donors who want nothing to change are throwing millions of missions of dollars, throwing millions of missions of dollars throwing millions of missions of dollars at my opponent.
These are the same people at my opponent. These are the same people at my opponent. These are the same people who paid Bill and Hillary Clinton 150 who paid Bill and Hillary Clinton 150 who paid Bill and Hillary Clinton. 150 million dollars for speeches and I guess million dollars for speeches and I guess million dollars for speeches and I guess some other votes, Hillary Clinton's, some other votes, Hillary Clinton's, some other votes, Hillary Clinton's campaign is all about protecting the campaign is all about protecting the Campaign is all about protecting the powerful and I understand that very well powerful and I understand that very well powerful and I understand that very well.
I didn't - nobody knows the system better. I didn't - nobody knows the system better. I didn't - nobody knows the system better than I do is about protecting those who than I do is about protecting those who than I do is about protecting those who have no power. They don't have power, but have no power, they don't have power, but have no power, they don't have power, but they great, great people, they great, great people, they great, great people.
They are great people without power. They are great people without power. They are great people. Without power further change them shall be great, that further change them shall be great. That further change them shall be great that they will be great people with power. They will be great people with power, they will be great people with power together.
We're going to work, we're gonna together, we're going to work, we're gonna together, we're going to work, we're gonna give working people a voice for the give working people a voice for the - give working people a voice for the first time in many, many Decades we've first time in many, many decades, we've first time in many, many decades, we've never had a voice in a long time.
Let's never had a voice in a long time. Let's never had a voice in a long time. Let's talk about what it all means for our talk about what it all means for our talk about what it all means for our veterans. That means a guarantee that veterans that means a guarantee that veterans that means a guarantee that they can seek medical care at either the - they can seek medical care at either the they can seek medical care at either the VA facility or the private medical VA facility.
Or the private medical VA facility or the private medical doctor with us from thankful since we've doctor with us from thankful since we've doctor with us from thankful. Since we've had such incredible veteran's support had such incredible veteran's support had such incredible veteran's support, uniform all across the land, never again uniform all across the land, never again uniform all across the land.
Never again, will we allow a veteran to die waiting? Will we allow a veteran to die waiting? Will we allow a veteran to die, waiting for the care they need from the doctor for the care they need from the doctor for the care they need from the doctor who's a doctor, people are dying on the line. That's not people are dying on the line.
That's not people are dying on the line, that's not gonna happen. Gon na happen gonna happen, we will protect those who protect us. We will protect those who protect us. We will protect those who protect us. These are great people. We are going to - these are great people, we are going to - these are great people.
We are going to protect them full power to a man at the - protect them full power to a man at the - protect them full power to a man at the center of our change. And this is a center of our change and this is a center of our change and this is a change of genuine - is also a plan to fix change of genuine is also a plan to fix change of genuine is also a plan to fix our lives Economy its rate, the - our lives economy, its rate, the - our lives economy, its rate, the government just revised the growth, government just revised the growth.
Government just revised the growth numbers. You probably saw yesterday's a numbers you probably saw yesterday's a numbers you probably saw yesterday's, a big story, big story, big story. We had horrible growth numbers. They were - we had horrible growth numbers. They were - we had horrible growth numbers.
They were announced last month. They made a mistake announced last month, they made a mistake announced last month. They made a mistake. They just announced that the number that they just announced that the number that they just announced that the number that was announced that was so bad was too was announced that was so bad was too was announced that was so bad was too high.
And I'd like to be readjusted high and I'd like to be readjusted high and I'd like to be readjusted downward down to one point, one percent downward down to one point, one percent downward down to one point one percent. Just so you understand if johnstown to just so you understand, if johnstown to just so you understand if johnstown to 8 % GDP or nine percent easy to say names 8 % GDP or nine percent, easy to say names 8 % GDP or nine percent.
Easy to say names are catastrophe and the same with other are catastrophe and the same with other are catastrophe and the same with other councils. And they do want to know about, but they make it want to know about, but they make it want to know about. But they make it impossible for your businesses to impossible for your businesses to impossible for your businesses to compete.
But they consider it a compete, but they consider it a compete. But they consider it a catastrophe catastrophe catastrophe here, we are with no growth, 1.1 percent here. We are with no growth 1.1 percent here we are with no growth, 1.1 percent which is no growth and we have the same which is no growth.
And we have the same which is no growth. And we have the same leaders that are incompetent and don't leaders that are incompetent and don't leaders that are incompetent and don't know what they're doing. But we're gonna know what they're doing. But we're gonna know what they're doing. But we're gonna make a change, we're going to make - make a change, we're going to make - make a change.
We're going to make America grow again, growth that begins America grow again, growth that begins America grow again, growth that begins with supporting our families, farms right with supporting our families farms right with supporting our families, farms right here in Iowa. Do we have any farmers in here in Iowa?
Do we have any farmers in here in Iowa? Do we have any farmers in the room? Do we have any stand up? I want the room. Do we have any stand up? I want the room. Do we have any stand up, I want to see what up from stand up that's a to see what up from stand up. That's a to see what up from stand up. That's a lot of farmers, that's a lot of farmers, lot of farmers, that's a lot of farmers, lot of farmers, that's a lot of farmers, wow, that's a lot of farmers, wheat, wow, that's a lot of farmers, wheat, wow, that's a lot of farmers, wheat farmers, one Of the most beautiful farmers, one of the most beautiful farmers, one of the most beautiful landscapes in the world, if you like, landscapes in the world if you like, landscapes in the world.
If you like, farms right, family farms are the farms, right. Family farms are the farms right, family farms are the backbone of this country. Remember that backbone of this country, remember that backbone of this country. Remember that and I know what's happening to you, we - and I know what's happening to you, we and I know what's happening to you.
We are going to end the EPA intrusions into are going to end the EPA intrusions into are going to end the EPA intrusions into your family homes and into your family, your family homes and into your family, your family homes and into your family farms. For no reason what they're doing farms for no reason what they're doing farms for no reason what they're doing to you.
Is it this straight? We're going to you, is it this straight? We're going to you, is it this straight? We're going to get rid of a lot of those regulations to get rid of a lot of those regulations to get rid of a lot of those regulations that don't mean anything except close to that. Don't mean anything except close to that don't mean anything except close to a lot of money and a lot of time and in a lot of money and a lot of time and in a lot of money and a lot of time.
And in many cases, you lose your farms over the many cases you lose your farms. Over the many cases you lose your farms. Over the regulations, we are going to reduce taxes, regulations. We are going to reduce taxes, regulations. We are going to reduce taxes from thirty five percent to fifteen from thirty five percent to fifteen from thirty five percent to fifteen percent.
And the thing - the thing that percent and the thing, the thing that percent and the thing - the thing that most surprised me isn't going around all. Most surprised me isn't going around. All most surprised me isn't going around all over the country and talking about that over the country and talking about that over the country and talking about that massive tax cut and also for the middle massive tax cut and also for the middle massive tax cut.
And also for the middle class, but the massive small business and class, but the massive small business and class. But the massive small business and business tax cut or the reduction by a business tax cut or the reduction by a business tax cut or the reduction by a lot of regulations, a hundred percent of lot of regulations, a hundred percent of lot of regulations, a hundred Percent of the people I talked to feel more.
The people I talked to feel more. The people I talked to feel more strongly about the regulations and who strongly about the regulations and who strongly about the regulations and who would have thought about that. Who would - would have thought about that? Who would - would have thought about that? Who would have thought that could happen, but they have thought that could happen, but they have thought that could happen, but they feel more strongly about getting rid of, feel more strongly about getting rid of, feel more strongly about getting rid of these horrible, really horrible these Horrible really horrible these horrible, really horrible regulations and that's what we're going regulations and that's what we're going regulations and that's what we're going to do.
We are going to protect the renewable, we are going to protect the renewable. We are going to protect the renewable fuel standard corn based ethanol fuel standard corn based ethanol fuel standard corn based ethanol eliminate job-killing regulations like eliminate job-killing regulations like eliminate job-killing regulations like the waters of the United States rule.
The waters of the United States rule the waters of the United States rule, which is a disaster which is a disaster which is a disaster and provide desperately needed tax and provide desperately needed tax and provide desperately needed tax relief. President Obama, President Obama relief, President Obama, President Obama relief, President Obama, President Obama lied to you about his support for the lied to you about his support for the lied to you about his support for the renewable fuel standard and you can renewable fuel standard and you Can renewable fuel standard and you can trust Hillary Clinton far less than you trust, Hillary Clinton, far less than you trust, Hillary Clinton, far less than you could even Obama.
She will set you out, could even Obama, she will set you out, could even Obama. She will set you out. She's already sold you out and her. She's already sold you out and her. She's already sold you out and her donors will be the only ones that are donors will be the only ones that are donors will be the only ones that are happy.
Believe me and you see it happy, believe me and you see it happy, believe me and you see it happening just like Obama, he made lots happening just like Obama. He made lots happening just like Obama. He made lots of promises and then he said bye-bye to of promises. And then he said bye-bye to of promises.
And then he said bye-bye to Iowa. Bye-bye and to other places, almost Iowa bye-bye and to other places almost Iowa bye-bye and to other places. Almost 97 % of farms of this country are 97 % of farms of this country are 97 % of farms of this country are family-owned and family matters. It's not family-owned and family matters, it's not family-owned and family matters.
It's not only a great American tradition, but a only a great American tradition, but a only a great American tradition, but a vital component of America's economic vital component of America's economic vital component of America's economic and national security. So true yet and national security. So true yet and national security, so true yet, Hillary Clinton wants to shut down.
Hillary Clinton wants to shut down. Hillary Clinton wants to shut down family farms just like she wants to shut family farms just like she wants to shut family farms just like she wants to shut down the miners and the steel workers down the miners and the steel workers down the miners and the Steel workers, she better shut them down that I can she better shut them down that I can she better shut them down that I can tell you she will do this.
Not only tell you she will do this, not only tell you she will do this not only through radical regulation, but also by through radical regulation, but also by through radical regulation, but also by raising taxes on family farms to rates, raising taxes on family farms to Rates raising taxes on family farms to rates as high US and I think actually higher as high US and I think actually higher as high US and I think actually higher than 50 %. And just so you understand I'm than 50 %. And just so you understand I'm than 50 % and just so you understand I'm cutting taxes massively, she is raising cutting taxes massively.
She is raising cutting taxes massively. She is raising taxes, master raising cap, adding to the pain, she will tax family adding to the pain. She will tax family adding to the pain. She will tax family farms again a death might as much as 45 % farms, again a death might as much as 45 % farms, again a death might as much as 45 % and you've already paid your debts, wait and you've already paid your debts, wait and You've already paid your debts, wait, you've paid your tax.
Now you're going to - you've paid your tax. Now you're going to - you've paid your tax. Now you're going to pay it again and your children and pay it again and your children and pay it again and your children and family. It's a very tough situation. You family, it's a very tough situation. You family, it's a very tough situation.
You know, on top of that her anti-energy know on top of that, her anti-energy know on top of that, her anti-energy agenda will drive up the cost of energy agenda will drive up the cost of energy agenda will drive up the cost of energy, another attack on Agriculture, so big another attack on agriculture, so big another attack on agriculture.
So big attack on what you're doing because you attack on what you're doing because you attack on what you're doing because you need the energy. We're going to end this need the energy, we're going to end this need the energy, we're going to end this war on the American farmer. You are going war on the American farmer, you are going war on the American farmer, you are going to like Donald Trump.
So much we get it to like Donald Trump so much, we get it to like Donald Trump so much, we get it, we all get it, we understand what's going, we all get it, we understand what's going, we all get it, we understand what's going on that Includes our plan to lower the on that includes our plan to lower the on - that includes our plan to lower the tax rate on family farms down to 15 % and tax rate on family farms down to 15 % and tax rate on family farms down to 15 % and is stopped double.
Taxation on the family is stopped double. Taxation on the family is stopped double taxation on the family farms and death, helping to ensure that farms and death helping to ensure that farms and death helping to ensure that the family farm tradition in Iowa, the family farm tradition in Iowa, the family farm tradition in Iowa continues to thrive and flourish with continues to thrive and flourish with continues to thrive and flourish with your children and your grandchildren and your children and your grandchildren and your children and your grandchildren.
And you'll be looking down and you'll be - you'll be looking down and you'll be - you'll be looking down and you'll be happy. We hope you're looking down anyway, happy. We hope you're looking down anyway, happy. We hope you're looking down anyway. We hope you're looking down. You'll be - we hope you're looking down, you'll be - we hope you're looking down, you'll be very happy and very proud.
We're going to very happy and very proud. We're going to very happy and very proud we're going to make a very powerful and great trade, make a very powerful and great trade, make a very powerful and great trade deal. We're going to have fantastic trade deal. We're going to have fantastic trade deal. We're going to have fantastic trade deals right now.
We have horrible trade deals right now. We have horrible trade deals right now. We have horrible trade deals. We have no worse trade deals, deals. We have no worse trade deals, deals. We have no worse trade deals. Our country loses if you look at our - our country loses, if you look at our - our country loses, if you look at our trade deficit with the world eight trade deficit with the world, eight trade deficit with the world eight hundred billion dollars a year.
Did you hundred billion dollars a year? Did you hundred billion dollars a year? Did you mention this? Who makes these deals who mention this? Who makes these deals who mention this, who makes these deals who makes it to those going through hardship makes it to those going through hardship makes it to those going through hardship.
Let me quote somebody that I got to know. Let me quote somebody that I got to know. Let me quote somebody that I got to know very well Reverend, Robert Stewart, tough, very well Reverend, Robert Stewart, tough, very well Reverend Robert Stewart, tough times, don't last tough people do. I think times don't last tough people do I think times don't last tough people do.
I think it's a great quote. I think it's a great - it's a great quote. I think it's a great - it's a great quote. I think it's a great - that's - and I know you're going through a - that's - and I know you're going through a - that's - and I know you're going through a little tough times with the farms, but little tough times with the farms, but little tough times with the farms.
But hang in there, we'll be there soon, hang in there. We'll be there soon. Hang in there. We'll be there soon. Hopefully for you. I've been so honored hopefully for you. I've been so honored hopefully for you. I've been so honored to have the support of the evangelical to have the support of the evangelical to have the support of the evangelical community all over the country, all community all over the country, all community all over the country, all incredible people.
And I hope we can incredible people and I hope we can incredible people and I hope we can continue to count on evangelical support continue to count on evangelical support, continue to count on evangelical support from November 8th, get out there and vote from November 8th. Get out there and vote from November 8th get out there and vote.
We are going to do something very, very - we are going to do something very, very - we are going to do something very, very special, whether we have Protestant a special, whether we have Protestant a special, whether we have Protestant a Presbyterian can you believe this. Presbyterian, can you believe this?
Presbyterian, can you believe this? Everyone says really, I don't believe it. Everyone says really, I don't believe it. Everyone says really, I don't believe it. I'm presbytery very proud of it. I'm presbytery very proud of it. I'm presbytery very proud of it. We will get rid of the Johnson amendment. We will get rid of the Johnson amendment.
We will get rid of the Johnson amendment, which is a disaster happened in 1954 by - which is a disaster happened in 1954 by - which is a disaster happened in 1954 by Lyndon Johnson, which - which really is a Lyndon Johnson, which - which really is a Lyndon Johnson, which - Which really is a horrible thing.
It denies your pastors horrible thing. It denies your pastors horrible thing. It denies your pastors their right to free speech and it's had their right to free speech and it's had their right to free speech and it's had a huge negative impact on religion, a a huge negative impact on religion, a a huge negative impact on religion, a Huge negative, we will let your pastors huge negative.
We will let your pastors huge negative. We will let your pastors your ministers, your rabbis, your priests, your ministers, your rabbis, your priests, your ministers, your rabbis, your priests. We will let them speak again without - we will let them speak again without - we will let them speak again without losing that's deductibility, we will let losing that's deductibility.
We will let losing that's deductibility. We will let them - we will let them speak again. We them - we will let them speak again. We them. We will let them speak again. We want them to speak right now. They cannot want them to speak right now. They cannot want them to speak right now. They cannot speak because they will lose all of the speak because they will lose all of the speak because they will lose all of the benefits that they used to have 1954 a benefits that they used to have 1954 a benefits that they used to have 1954. A complete disaster and it's so important complete disaster and it's so important complete disaster and it's so important that the pastors are going to be talking that the pastors are going to be talking that the pastors are going to be talking to you about it.
But it's so important to you about it, but it's so important to you about it. But it's so important that everybody in the evangelical that everybody in the evangelical that everybody in the evangelical community and other religious community and other religious community and other religious communities get out and vote on November communities, get out and vote on November communities get out and Vote on November 8th, because again this will be a 8th because again this will be a 8th because again this will be a one-time shot.
It's going to be gone one-time shot. It's going to be gone one-time shot, it's going to be gone. Don't forget it was only put there in - don't forget it was only put there in - don't forget it was only put there in 1954 by Lyndon Johnson. So so important 1954 by Lyndon Johnson. So so important 1954 by Lyndon Johnson.
So, so important that you get out and vote that you get out and vote that you get out and vote November 8, we will get rid of it it November 8. We will get rid of it it November 8. We will get rid of it. It should have never happened in the first, should have never happened in the first, should have never happened in the first world.
I also know how much the world I also know how much the world. I also know how much the evangelical community is deeply evangelical community is deeply evangelical community is deeply committed to helping those in poverty. I committed to helping those in poverty. I committed to helping those in poverty.
I know it for a fact my economic agenda know it for a fact. My economic agenda know it for a fact. My economic agenda can be summed up in three words three. Can be summed up in three words, three can be summed up in three words, three beautiful words, jobs, jobs, jobs which we beautiful words, jobs, jobs, jobs, which we beautiful words, jobs, jobs, jobs, which we don't have now.
I don't even have to. Don't have. Now. I don't even have to don't have now. I don't even have to mention the tremendous construction mention the tremendous construction mention the tremendous construction workers in this room because I think I workers in this room because I think I workers in this room because I think I have every single one of them.
I love my have every single one of them. I love my have every single one of them. I love my construction workers. Do you know how construction workers do you know how construction workers do you know how much I built the construction worker you much. I built the construction worker, you much, I built the construction worker, you have a lot of construction workers in, have a lot of construction workers in, have a lot of construction workers in Iowa.
I was actually surprised to see how Iowa - I was actually surprised to see how Iowa I was actually surprised to see how many, but they love the state and I hope many, but they love the state and I hope many, but they love the state. And I hope they get out on November 8, I'm asking they get out on November 8. I'm asking they get out on November 8. I'm asking for the support of all Americans who for the support of all Americans who for the support of all Americans who want more opportunity, higher wages, safe want more opportunity, higher wages, safe want more opportunity, higher wages, safe communities, confident leadership and communities, confident leadership and Communities confident leadership and honest government, very simple, we're going to send the special interest, we're going to send the special interest, we're going to send the special interest packet and we are going to once again packet and we are going to once again packet and we are Going to once again have a government of By and For the have a government of By and For the have a government of By and For the People People People come out.
Remember and we sometimes come out remember and we sometimes come out remember and we sometimes forget Republicans are the party of forget Republicans are the party of forget Republicans are the party of Abraham Lincoln, pretty good president. Abraham Lincoln, pretty good president. Abraham Lincoln pretty good president, right, pretty, I said I'm gonna be the right pretty - I said I'm gonna be the right pretty - I said I'm gonna be the most presidential president you've ever most presidential president you've ever most presidential president you've ever had.
And then I thought about Abraham had and then I thought about Abraham had and then I thought about Abraham Lincoln and I serve. I don't know, he's Lincoln and I serve. I don't know. He's Lincoln and I serve. I don't know. He's pretty tough debate right? Abraham pretty tough debate, right? Abraham pretty tough debate, right?
Abraham Lincoln, he was pretty good which brings Lincoln, he was pretty good which brings Lincoln. He was pretty good, which brings me to a subject that is so important and me to a subject that is so important. And me to a subject that is so important and very personal for me, nothing means more very personal for me, nothing means more very personal for me.
Nothing means more to me than working to make our party the to me than working to make our party the to me than working to make our party the home of the african-american vote once home of the african-american vote. Once home of the african-american vote once again used to be there are millions and again used to be there are millions and again used to be there are millions and millions of african-americans in this millions of african-americans.
In this millions of african-americans in this country who have succeeded so great and country who have succeeded so great and country who have succeeded so great and who deserve a government that protects who deserve a government that protects who deserve a government that protects and honors their Incredible contribution and honors their incredible contribution and honors their incredible contribution.
So many of them so successful, very nice. But we also have to talk about the - but we also have to talk about the - but we also have to talk about the millions of african-americans who remain millions of african-americans who remain millions of african-americans who remain trapped in poverty and in failing trapped in poverty.
And in failing trapped in poverty and in failing schools, that's out - I've spoken to a lot schools that's out. I've spoken to a lot schools that's out. I've spoken to a lot in recent days, a lot of people, and I've in recent days, a lot of people and I've in recent days, a lot of people and I've spoken a lot about the deplorable spoken a lot about the deplorable, spoken a lot about the Deplorable conditions in many of our inner cities, conditions in many of our inner cities, conditions in many of our inner cities.
Just about all as a father as a builder, just about all as a father as a builder, just about all as a father as a builder. As an American, it offends my sense of as an American, it offends my sense of as an American, it offends my sense of right and wrong to see anyone living in right and wrong to see anyone living in right and wrong to see anyone living in such Conditions, they are living in such conditions, they are living in such conditions, they are living in terrible, terrible conditions beyond terrible, terrible conditions beyond terrible, terrible conditions beyond belief conditions, man, almost 40 percent belief conditions, man, almost 40 percent belief conditions man almost 40 percent of African American children are living of African American children are living of African.
American children are living in poverty, abject poverty, including 45 in poverty, abject poverty, including 45 in poverty, abject poverty, including 45 percent of children under the age of 6 percent of children under the age of 6 percent of children under the age of 6. In Detroit, half of its residents do not in Detroit, half of its residents do not.
In Detroit, half of its residents do not work in Milwaukee, almost four in 10 work in Milwaukee, almost four in 10 work in Milwaukee, almost four in 10 African American men. Between the age of African American men between the age of African American men between the age of 24 and 54 are not employed and have no.
24 and 54 are not employed and have no. 24 and 54 are not employed and have no prospect of employment. More than 6,000 prospect of employment, more than 6,000 prospect of employment, more than 6,000 African Americans are the victims of African Americans are the victims of African Americans are the victims of murder of murder every single year just murder of murder every single year just murder of Murder every single year, just yesterday, the cousin of NBA star, Dwayne yesterday, the cousin of NBA star, Dwayne yesterday, the cousin of NBA star, Dwayne rain, a great guy.
Dwayne Wade was the rain a great guy. Dwayne Wade was the rain a great guy. Dwayne Wade was the victim of a tragic shooting in Chicago, victim of a tragic shooting in Chicago, victim of a tragic shooting in Chicago. She was the mother of four and was she was the mother of four and was she was the mother of four and was killed while pushing her infant child in killed while pushing her infant child in killed while pushing her infant child in a stroller.
Just walking down the street a stroller, just walking down the street a stroller, just walking down the street shot, it breaks all of our hearts to see shot. It breaks all of our hearts to see shot. It breaks all of our hearts to see it. It's horrible. It's horrible and it's it, it's horrible, it's horrible and it's it, it's horrible, it's horrible and it's only getting worse, only getting worse, only getting worse.
This shouldn't happen in our country. This shouldn't happen in our country. This shouldn't happen in our country. This shouldn't happen in America, so we - this shouldn't happen in America. So we - this shouldn't happen in America. So we send our thoughts and prayers to the send our thoughts and prayers to the send our thoughts and prayers to the family.
And we also promise to fight for family and we also promise to fight for family. And we also promise to fight for a much, much better tomorrow across thank a much, much better tomorrow across thank a much, much better tomorrow across. Thank you. Across Chicago more than 2700. Have you across Chicago more than 2700, have you across Chicago more than 2700 have been shooting victims since January of been shooting victims since January of been shooting victims since January of this year.
Thank you 2700 people have this year. Thank you 2700 people have this year. Thank you. 2700 people have been shot been shot been shot since January. We did not as a society since January. We did not as a society since January. We did not as a society tolerate this level of violence and tolerate this level of violence and tolerate this level of violence and suffering in our cities.
Those who would suffering in our cities, those who would suffering in our cities. Those who would deny that and you know there are many deny that and you know there are many deny that and you know there are many people that do they have their own people that do they have their own people that do they have their own reasons.
Many of them are not good reasons, many of them are not good reasons. Many of them are not good reasons, but this is a national crisis reasons, but this is a national crisis reasons, but this is a national crisis. This is a crisis that requires urgent. This is a crisis that requires urgent. This is a crisis that requires urgent action, have no business.
None of these action have no business. None of these action have no business. None of these people have any business that support people have any business that support people have any business that support what's been going on running for elected what's been going on running for elected what's been going on running for elected office.
None of these people should be office, none of these people should be office. None of these people should be even allowed to run. They're in this race for decades and decades and decades for decades and decades and decades for decades and decades and decades failed democratic policies. The policy of failed democratic policies, the policy of failed democratic policies, the policy of Hillary Clinton have created this high.
Hillary Clinton have created this high. Hillary Clinton have created this high crime and crushing poverty, absolutely crime and crushing poverty, absolutely crime and crushing poverty, absolutely crushing property in so many communities crushing property in so many communities crushing property in so many communities under Democratic control.
We have bad under Democratic control. We have bad under Democratic control, we have bad schools, no jobs, high crimes and no hope schools, no jobs, high crimes and no hope schools, no jobs, high crimes and no hope it can't get any worse to those. It can't get any worse to those. It can't get any worse to those suffering.
I say vote for Donald Trump, I suffering I say vote for Donald Trump, I suffering I say vote for Donald Trump. I will fix it, African American Hispanics will fix it, African American Hispanics will fix it. African American Hispanics vote for Donald Trump, I will fix it will vote for Donald Trump. I will fix it will vote for Donald Trump.
I will fix it will get fixed and I add and I had it in all sincerity and I add and I had it in all sincerity and I add and I had it in all sincerity. What do you have to lose? It can't get. What do you have to lose? It can't get what do you have to lose, it can't get any worse, any worse, any worse? What do you have to lose?
Let me also what do you have to lose? Let me also what do you have to lose? Let me also tell you what you have to gain millions tell you what you have to gain millions, tell you what you have to gain millions of jobs, far better schools, safe of jobs, far better schools, safe of jobs, far better schools, safe communities.
What you can in fact walk communities, what you can in fact walk communities, what you can in fact walk outside and walk down the street with outside and walk down the street with outside and walk down the street with your child with your wife or your your Child with your wife or your your child with your wife or your husband by yourself and not be killed husband by yourself and not be killed husband by yourself and not be killed and not be shot.
Not be loved, you can and not be shot. Not be loved, you can and not be shot, not be loved, you can have Safe Communities again and the have Safe Communities again and the have Safe Communities again and the african-american voter have seen what's african-american voter have seen. What's african-american voter have seen.
What's been happening over the last two weeks been happening over the last two weeks been happening over the last two weeks and three weeks with me and I'll tell and three weeks with me and I'll tell and three weeks with me and I'll tell you, I think We have a lot of support out you. I think we have a lot of support out you.
I think we have a lot of support out there. They're very, very tired of what's there. They're very, very tired of what's there. They're very, very tired of what's been going on and the Hispanic community been going on and the Hispanic community been going on and the Hispanic community like much, they're very sick and tired of like much.
They're very sick and tired of like much. They're very sick and tired of what's going on and it's been going on what's going on and it's been going on what's going on and it's been going on for decades and decades and decades by for decades and decades and decades, by for decades and decades and Decades, by the way, how quickly people have the way, how quickly people have the way, how quickly people have forgotten that Hillary Clinton called forgotten that Hillary Clinton called forgotten that Hillary Clinton called black.
You super-predators remember that black you super-predators remember that black you super-predators remember that super predators and they were very, very super predators and they were very, very super predators and they were very, very insulted. But now people have forgotten insulted, but now people have forgotten insulted.
But now people have forgotten, I'm running to offer a better future to - I'm running to offer a better future to - I'm running to offer a better future to the citizens of Detroit, of Baltimore, the citizens of Detroit, of Baltimore, the citizens of Detroit, of Baltimore, Chicago. All across this great land, inner Chicago all across this great land, inner Chicago all across this great land, inner city and outer city, all over everybody city and outer city, all over everybody city and outer city all over everybody we're going to come together.
We could - we're going to come together, we could - we're going to come together. We could have one great country greater than ever, have one great country greater than ever, have one great country greater than ever before. And what it said is that and what it said is that, and what it said is that african-americans have given so much to african-americans have given so much to african-americans have given so much to this country they fought and died at this country.
They fought and died. At this country, they fought and died at every war since the Revolution they've every war. Since the Revolution, they've every war. Since the Revolution, they've lifted up the conscience of our nation, lifted up the conscience of our nation, lifted up the conscience of our nation into civil rights movement.
They've into civil rights movement. They've into civil rights movement. They've sacrificed so much for the national good sacrificed. So much for the national good sacrificed so much for the national good. Now is the time to put a new agenda into now is the time to put a new agenda into now is the time to put a new agenda into action that expands opportunity, ensures action that expands opportunity, ensures action that expands opportunity ensures equality and that protects The rights of equality and that protects the rights of equality and that protects the rights of each and every citizen including African, each and every citizen including African, each and every citizen including African American citizens.
We have to help we - American citizens, we have to help. We American citizens, we have to help, we have to stop the crime. We have to stop, have to stop the crime. We have to stop, have to stop the crime. We have to stop the bad education. We have to help with the bad education. We have to help with the bad education, we have to help with housing.
We have to solve our inner-city housing. We have to solve our inner-city housing. We have to solve our inner-city problems and we will - I will fix it. This includes one of the most important. This includes one of the most important. This includes one of the most important rights of all the right to live in rights of all the right to live in rights of all the right to live in safety.
I will work with communities with safety. I will work with communities with safety. I will work with communities, with police and with federal law enforcement police and with federal law enforcement police and with federal law enforcement to make community safe and secure for - to make community safe and secure for to make community safe.
And secure for all of our people, we are also going to all of our people. We are also going to all of our people. We are also going to end the discrimination that traps end the discrimination that traps end the discrimination that traps parents and kids in failing government parents and kids in failing government parents and kids in failing government schools or schools for a disaster.
The schools or schools. For a disaster, the schools or schools for a disaster, the Republican Party and me is a party of Republican Party and me is a party of Republican Party and me is a party of school choice. You will see a big school choice. You will see a big school choice, you will see a big difference, big, big difference.
There is difference, big, big difference. There is difference, big, big difference. There is another civil rights issue. We need to another civil rights issue. We need to another civil rights issue. We need to talk about and that's the issue of talk about and that's the issue of talk about. And that's the issue of immigration enforcement.
Every time an immigration enforcement, every time an immigration enforcement, every time an African American citizen or a Hispanic African American citizen or a Hispanic African American citizen or a Hispanic citizen or any citizen loses their job citizen or any citizen loses their job citizen or any citizen Loses their job to an illegal immigrant the rights of to an illegal immigrant, the rights of to an illegal immigrant.
The rights of that American citizen have been totally that American citizen have been totally that American citizen have been totally violated. They're losing their job violated. They're losing their job violated, they're losing their job because it really is - it's an economic because it really is - it's an economic because it really is - it's an economic question, all equal protection under the question, all equal protection under the question, all equal protection under the law Must include the consistent law must include the consistent law must include the consistent application of our immigration laws, very application of our immigration laws, very application of our immigration laws, very simple.
These laws were passed to protect simple. These laws were passed to protect simple. These laws were passed to protect American citizens and lawful residents, American citizens and lawful residents, American citizens and lawful residents of our country for instance federal law of our country for instance federal law of our country.
For instance, federal law protects the ability of American workers, protects the ability of American workers, protects the ability of American workers to seek jobs and employment when to seek jobs and employment when to seek jobs and employment. When government suspends knows immigration, government suspends knows immigration government suspends knows immigration laws in order to curry favor with laws in order to curry favor with laws in order to curry favor with special interests to give them campaign special interests to give them campaign special interests.
To give them campaign contributions and big ones busting contributions and big ones busting contributions and big ones busting Americans, their jobs, they have been Americans, their jobs, they have been Americans, their jobs, they have been denied the protection of their laws in denied the protection of their Laws in denied the protection of their laws in recent days.
The media as it usually does, recent days, the media as it usually does recent days, the media as it usually does has missed the whole point on - has missed the whole point on has missed the whole point on immigration. They have missed the - all the media wants to talk about is the all the media wants to talk about is the all the media wants to talk about is the 11 million people or more or less they 11 million people or more or less, they 11 million People or more or less, they have no idea what the number is because have no idea what the number is because have no idea what the number is because we have no control over a country.
They - we have no control over a country. They - we have no control over a country, they have no idea what it is, have no idea what it is, have no idea what it is then here illegally, but my priority and then here illegally, but my priority and then here illegally. But my priority and really it's for the well-being of - really it's for the well-being of - really it's for the well-being of everybody, but in particular, the 300, everybody, but in particular, the 300, everybody.
But in particular, the 300 million Americans and more and all of million Americans. And more and all of million Americans and more and all of our Hispanic citizens and all of our - our Hispanic citizens and all of our - our Hispanic citizens and all of our african-american citizens legal, african-american, citizens legal, african-american, citizens, legal residents who want a secure border.
And I residents who want a secure border and I residents who want a secure border and I mean secure, they want drugs to stop mean secure. They want drugs to stop mean secure. They want drugs to stop flowing into their states and into their - flowing into their states and into their - flowing into their states and into their community.
And they want a great growing community and they want a great growing community and they want a great growing economy. And they want the job, my goal is economy and they want the job. My goal is economy and they want the job. My goal is to provide good jobs and even great jobs to provide good jobs and even great jobs to provide good jobs and even great jobs, big schools and safety to every Hispanic big schools and safety to every Hispanic big schools and safety to every Hispanic community.
African-american community in community, african-american community in community african-american community in the country, but really what is it? It's the country, but really what is it? It's the country. But really what is it? It's to every commit, every single community to every commit, every single community to every commit, every single community.
We can't do that. If we don't secure our - we can't do that. If we don't secure our - we can't do that. If we don't secure our border, we can't do it on day one, I'm border. We can't do it on day one, I'm border. We can't do it on day one. I'm going to begin swiftly removing criminal going to begin swiftly removing criminal, going to begin swiftly removing criminal illegal immigrants from this country, including removing the hundreds of including removing the hundreds of including removing the hundreds of thousands of criminal illegal immigrants, thousands of criminal illegal immigrants.
Thousands of criminal illegal immigrants that have been released into the United that have been released into the United that have been released into the United States and United States communities, States and United States, communities, States and United States. Communities under the incompetent Obama Clinton under the incompetent Obama Clinton under the incompetent Obama, Clinton administration, these international gangs administration these international gangs administration these international gangs of thugs and drug cartels will be I of thugs and drug cartels will be I of thugs and drug cartels Will be - I promise you from the first day in office, promise you from the first day in office promise you from the first day in office.
The first thing I'm going to do the - the first thing I'm going to do the - the first thing I'm going to do the first piece of paper that I'm going to first piece of paper that I'm going to first piece of paper that I'm going to sign Is we going to get rid of these sign, is we going to get rid of these sign is we going to get rid of these people day one before the wall before people day one before the wall before people day one before the wall before anything.
And our great law enforcement, anything and our great law enforcement, anything and our great law enforcement, they know who they are, they've been. They know who they are, they've been. They know who they are. They've been living with them for years and they living with them for years and they living with them for years and they don't want to put up with it anymore.
So don't want to put up with it anymore. So don't want to put up with it anymore. So we are going to get rid of them. Gay one, we are going to get rid of them. Gay one, we are going to get rid of them. Gay one, we start in one the reign of terror. It is that you go to the reign of terror, it is that you go to the reign of terror, it is that you go to some places and you will see the reign, some places and you will see the reign, some places and you will see the Reign of terror will be over and it will be - of - terror will be over and it will be - of terror will be over and it will be over fast over fast over fast.
Remember, our law enforcement, our police, remember our law enforcement, our police, remember our law enforcement, our police, who by the way should get a tremendous, who by the way should get a tremendous, who by the way should get a tremendous hand because what they have to put, Yeah, hand because what they have to put yeah hand because what they have to put, yeah, great people, great, but they know these great people, great, but they know these great people, great, but they know these people with so many of the top police people with so Many of the top police people with so many of the top police, the people in the rank-and-file, they - the people in the rank-and-file, they - the people in the rank-and-file, they know these people.
So it's not like, oh, know these people. So it's not like, oh, know these people. So it's not like, oh, gee, we're going to set, they know all of, gee, we're going to set, they know all of, gee, we're going to set, they know all of them. They know the good ones, the bad them. They know the good ones, the bad them, they know the good ones, the bad ones, they know all of them, ones, they know all of them, ones they know all of them.
We are going to get rid of the criminals. We are going to get rid of the criminals. We are going to get rid of the criminals and it's going to happen within one hour and it's going to happen within one hour and it's going to happen within one hour after I take off. As we start to bring after I take off as we start to bring after I take off as we start to bring them back where they came from in this them back where they came from in this them back where they came from.
In this task, we will always err on the side of task. We will always err on the side of task. We will always err on the side of protecting the American people. We will protecting the American people. We will protecting the American people. We will use immigration law to present crimes, use immigration law to present crimes, use immigration law to present crimes and we will not wait until some innocent and we will not wait until some innocent and we will not wait until some innocent America has been harmed or Killed before America has been harmed or killed before America has been harmed or killed before taking action.
We will move justly, but we taking action, we will move justly, but we taking action, we will move justly, but we will move fast. Believe me and we will will move fast, believe me and we will will move fast. Believe me and we will move tough. There won't be any games move tough, there won't be any games move tough, there won't be any games, there won't be any games.
These are bad people, what a team we're - these are bad people, what a team we're, these are bad people, what a team we're going to build a great wall on the going to build a great wall on the going to build a great wall on the border. And we're going to Institute border and we're going to Institute border and we're going to Institute nationwide verify, stop, illegal, nationwide verify, stop, illegal nationwide verify, stop illegal immigrants from obsessing welfare and immigrants from obsessing welfare and immigrants from obsessing welfare and entitlements and develop an aviation Entitlements and develop an aviation entitlements and develop an aviation entry.
You know what that is entry, you know what that is entry, you know what that is, exit entry system to ensure those who exit entry system to ensure those who exit entry system to ensure those who overstay their visas, that they're overstay their visas that they're overstay Their visas that they're quickly removed, we don't enforce our quickly removed.
We don't enforce our quickly removed. We don't enforce our visa expiration dates, then we have open visa expiration dates. Then we have open visa expiration dates. Then we have open borders and we have nothing. But crime, borders and we have nothing but crime, borders and we have nothing but crime, it's going to end.
I'm also going to - it's going to end - I'm also going to - it's going to end - I'm also going to cancel all unconstitutional orders, cancel all unconstitutional orders, cancel all unconstitutional orders, executive orders. You've been hearing executive orders, you've been hearing executive orders. You've been hearing about that right in blue talent section about that right in blue talent section about that, right.
In blue talent section little, we have a little - a little bit of little - we have a little - a little bit of little - we have a little - a little bit of an excessive executive order, president, an excessive executive order president, an excessive executive order president and then power. The rank and file ice and then power the rank and file ice and then power the rank and file ice offices and border patrol officers to offices and border patrol officers to offices and border patrol officers to finally do the jobs that they were meant.
Finally do. The jobs that they were meant finally do the jobs that they were meant to do now, what is Hillary Clinton going to do now? What is Hillary Clinton going to do now? What is Hillary Clinton going to do? Governor, what is he going to do to do governor, what is he going to do to do governor what is he going to do that much, right?
She's pledged amnesty in that much right? She's pledged amnesty in that much right. She's pledged amnesty in her first 100 days combined with her her first 100 days combined with her. Her first 100 days combined with her elimination of virtually all routine elimination of virtually all routine elimination of virtually all routine immigration enforcement, in other words, immigration enforcement.
In other words, immigration enforcement, in other words, totally open borders, which we will leave totally open borders, which we will leave totally open borders, which we will leave. This is a massive crime wave that's - this is a massive crime wave that's - this is a massive crime wave, that's what's going to happen.
It's not gonna what's going to happen. It's not gonna what's going to happen. It's not gonna happen. If I get elected, believe me most alarmingly his place to keep most alarmingly his place to keep most alarmingly. His place to keep President Obama's executive amnesty President Obama's executive amnesty President Obama's executive amnesty, which has been blocked by the Supreme, which has been blocked by the Supreme, which has been blocked by the Supreme Court directly disregarding a supreme Court directly disregarding a supreme Court directly.
Disregarding a supreme court injunction be on da cheese pledge court injunction be on da cheese pledge court injunction be on da cheese pledge, had another executive amnesty in - had another executive amnesty in had another executive amnesty in violation of both congressional law and violation of both congressional Law and violation of both congressional law and the United States Constitution, the United States Constitution, the United States Constitution.
These actions from Hillary Clinton will these actions from Hillary Clinton will these actions from Hillary Clinton will trigger a crisis greater than almost trigger a crisis greater than almost trigger a crisis greater than almost anything we've seen. This will be a anything we've seen. This will be a anything we've seen.
This will be a constitutional crisis like we haven't constitutional crisis like we haven't constitutional crisis like we haven't seen in our country. In effect, she's seen in our country, in effect, she's seen in our country. In effect, she's pledging to abolish the lawmaking powers pledging to abolish the lawmaking powers pledging to abolish the lawmaking powers of Congress and assume the powers of an of Congress and assume the powers of an of Congress and assume the powers of an imperial leader.
She's not an imperial imperial leader. She's not an imperial, imperial leader. She's not an imperial literacy. I don't think so. I don't think literacy. I don't think so. I don't think literacy. I don't think so. I don't think so. So - so she doesn't - she doesn't even look. She doesn't - she doesn't even look, she doesn't - she doesn't even look presidential.
To me, she certainly does presidential. To me, she certainly does presidential. To me, she certainly does. This executive amnesty would bypass this executive amnesty would bypass this executive amnesty would bypass Congress to print millions of work Congress to print millions of work Congress to print millions of work permits and benefit cards to those permits and benefit cards to those permits and benefit cards.
To those ineligible to receive them, ineligible to receive them ineligible to receive them, Hillary Clinton's legislative plan, Hillary Clinton's legislative plan, Hillary Clinton's legislative plan. Remember, this is to give illegal - remember this is to give illegal - remember this is to give illegal immigrants access to Obama care, Social immigrants, access to Obama care, Social immigrants, access to Obama care, Social Security, Medicare at us welfare.
I can Security Medicare at us welfare. I can Security Medicare at us welfare. I can see one man that doesn't like that very see one man that doesn't like that very see one man that doesn't like that very much. That would not happen here. Would it much that would not happen here? Would it much that would not happen here, would it our plan will functionally end our plan will functionally end our plan will functionally end enforcement of visa overstay rules, enforcement of visa overstay rules, enforcement of visa overstay rules, another open border decree.
She will also another open border decree. She will also another open border decree. She will also close down detention centers for border close down detention centers for border close down detention centers for border crossers meaning she will have an open. Crossers meaning she will have an open crossers, meaning she will have an open southern border that will bring nothing southern border that will bring nothing southern border that will bring nothing but crime and destruction.
This is not to, but crime and destruction this is not to but crime and destruction. This is not to mention that she wants a 550 percent mention that she wants a 550 percent mention that she wants a 550 percent interest in Syrian refugees flowing into interest in Syrian refugees flowing into interest in Syrian refugees flowing into a country.
That's a country that's a country that's and she can't even say the words radical and she can't even say the words radical and she can't even say the words radical Islamic terrorists and she supports Islamic terrorists and she supports Islamic terrorists and she supports sanctuary cities and Catch-and-release sanctuary cities and catch-and-release sanctuary cities and catch-and-release policies that are getting innocent policies that are getting innocent policies that are getting innocent, American kills.
And let me tell you, we American kills and let me tell you, we American kills. And let me tell you we will end that so quickly if I get the will end that so quickly if I get the - will end that so quickly, if I get the support, I need to support what I have to support. I need to support what I have to support.
I need to support what I have to support. They're not a big one for including family that is incredible, the including family that is incredible, the including family that is incredible. The family of Sarah root, a gay students family of Sarah root, a gay students family of Sarah root, a gay students training, a young beautiful woman who was training a young, beautiful woman who was training a young, beautiful woman who was killed by an illegal immigrant who Was killed by an illegal immigrant who was killed by an illegal immigrant who was released from the border by Obama and released from the border by Obama and released from the border by Obama and the Obama administration.
With horrible the Obama administration with horrible the Obama administration with horrible policy and then released again after the policy and then released again after the policy and then released again after the killing killing, killing I've been so inspired by the courage and I've been so inspired by The courage and I've been so inspired by the courage and bravery of the root family and so many bravery of the root family and so many bravery of the root family and so many other families.
And I have the root other families and I have the root other families and I have the root family with us today. And I'd like them family with us today. And I'd like them family with us today and I'd like them to step up and just say hello. These are to step up and just say hello. These are to step up and just say hello.
These are incredible people not to know that 15 hours later, she not to know that 15 hours later, she not to know that 15 hours later she would be killed by new evil aliens. They would be killed by new evil aliens. They would be killed by new evil aliens. They arrested him. The judge set a bond of arrested him.
The judge set a bond of arrested him. The judge set a bond of $ 50,000 a week after my daughter was $ 50,000 a week after my daughter was $ 50,000 a week after my daughter was killed. He is running three. Everything we killed, he is running three, everything we killed, he is running three, everything we do, all the fight we're doing is to save, do all the fight we're doing is to save, do all the fight we're doing is to save the next person from having to Go the next person from having to go the next person from having to go through what we're going through Sara's through what we're going through Sara's through what we're going through Sara's life.
And I want to thank him so much for life and I want to thank him so much for life and I want to thank him so much for all his hard work, everybody. That's all his hard work, everybody. That's all his hard work, everybody that's helped us trying to keep the story out, helped us trying to keep the story out, helped us trying to keep the story out there, try to prevent this tragedy from there, try to prevent this tragedy from there.
Try to prevent this tragedy from happening to another person because if happening to another person, because if happening to another person, because if Hillary gets in, it will continue to Hillary gets in, it will continue to Hillary gets in. It will continue to happen to trump what an incredible family and this what an incredible family and this what an incredible family.
And this happened so much thousands and thousands happened so much thousands and thousands happened so much thousands and thousands of people. The crime is unbelievable and of people. The crime is unbelievable and of people. The crime is unbelievable and we're going to stop it. We're to stop the - we're going to stop it.
We're to stop the - we're going to stop it. We're to stop the crime. There's a reason that we just got crime. There's a reason that we just got crime. There's a reason that we just got endorsed by sixteen thousand five endorsed by sixteen thousand five endorsed by sixteen thousand, five hundred Border Patrol agents.
They know hundred Border Patrol agents. They know hundred Border Patrol agents, they know the system better than anybody. It's the system better than anybody. It's the system better than anybody. It's easier for them to just relax, but they easier for them to just relax, but they easier for them to just relax.
But they wanted to endorse, they want to see a wanted to endorse, they want to see a wanted to endorse, they want to see a strong border. We need a strong border, strong border. We need a strong border, strong border. We need a strong border. We're going to remain the country, so I - we're going to remain the country.
So I - we're going to remain the country. So I want to just thank them in particular want to just thank them in particular want to just thank them in particular. Thank you. Hilary's plan is very dangerous. Hilary's plan is very dangerous. Hilary's plan is very dangerous. It's very divisive. It's radical is - it's very divisive, it's radical, is it's very divisive, it's radical, is reckless.
It's wrecking the innocent reckless. It's wrecking the innocent reckless. It's wrecking the innocent lives of so many people and we will have lives of so many people and we will have lives of so many people and we will have an unprecedented crisis. We're allowing an unprecedented crisis. We're allowing an unprecedented crisis.
We're allowing people to come in, you're gonna have a people to come in, you're gonna have a people to come in, you're gonna have a crisis like we have never seen in this crisis like we have never seen in this crisis like we have Never seen in this country if I'm elected, we are not gonna country if I'm elected, we are not gonna country if I'm elected, we are not gonna have a crisis would have a strong great have a crisis, would have a strong great have a Crisis would have a strong great country again.
So the choice hopefully will be clear to the choice. Hopefully will be clear to the choice, hopefully will be clear to the people of Iowa and throughout the - the people of Iowa and throughout the - the people of Iowa and throughout the country. A vote fix up is the vote to country a vote. Fix up is the vote to country a vote.
Fix up is the vote to have a nation of laws and vote for have a nation of laws and vote for have a nation of laws and vote for Clinton is a vote to have dangerous open. Clinton is a vote to have dangerous open. Clinton is a vote to have dangerous open borders where anybody can just walk in borders where anybody can just walk in borders where anybody can just walk in and do whatever they want on every issue and do whatever they want on every issue and do whatever they Want on every issue, our campaign is about making life better.
Our campaign is about making life better. Our campaign is about making life better for working people, but we can't for working people, but we can't for working people, but we can't accomplish that goal unless we break up accomplish that goal unless we break up accomplish that goal unless we break up the special interest Monopoly and give the special interest monopoly and give the special interest monopoly and give the power back to all of the people and the power back to all of the people and the power back to all of the people.
And that's what we're going to do. Many, that's what we're going to do many, that's what we're going to do. Many people have said that establishment people have said that establishment people have said that establishment media assault on me and they have said media assault on me. And they have said media assault on me.
And they have said that the establishment media assault on that, the establishment media assault on that, the establishment media assault on me has been the greatest that they've me has been the greatest that they've me has been the greatest that they've ever seen in the political history Of ever seen in the political history of ever seen in the political history of our country, I feel that I feel it.
I know our country, I feel that I feel it. I know our country, I feel that I feel it. I know it even today some major papers failed it even today. Some major papers failed it even today. Some major papers failed to mention how strong our poll numbers to mention how strong our poll numbers to mention how strong our poll numbers have become over the last two week have become over the last two week have become over the last two week period and we're Doing very well in Iowa period and we're doing very well in Iowa period and we're doing very well in Iowa.
We happen to believe, but - but they refuse to print, but they'll - but - but they refuse to print, but they'll - but - but they refuse to print, but they'll stop printing to have no choice, stop printing to have no choice stop printing to have no choice eventually. But they refuse to put it eventually, but they refuse to put it eventually, but they refuse to put it down.
We're doing great. They too are part down. We're doing great. They too are part down. We're doing great. They too are part of a rigged system. The media is totally of a rigged system. The media is totally of a rigged system. The media is totally dishonest. They're a rigged system, trying dishonest. They're a rigged system, trying dishonest.
They're a rigged system trying to dye people. The positive change that to dye people, the positive change that to dye people, the positive change that they're looking for and they deserve, they're looking for and they deserve. They're looking for and they deserve. They take phrases and statements chop, they take phrases and statements chop, they take phrases and statements, chop them up, take them out of context and them up, take them out of context and them up, take them out of context and then they discuss them for days and Days then they discuss them for days and days, then they discuss them for days and days and days and days and days always trying to demean and belittle always trying to demean and belittle always trying to demean and belittle just whatever they can do to demean.
And just whatever they can do to demean and just whatever they can do to demean and belittle our incredible movement cuz, we belittle our incredible movement cuz we belittle our incredible movement cuz we have a movement. They also disorder the - have a movement. They also disorder the - have a movement, they also disorder the great movements may be the greatest.
Great movements may be the greatest. Great movements may be the greatest movement they've ever seen in the movement they've ever seen in the movement they've ever seen in the history of our country and many people, history of our country and many people, history of our country. And many people said we're going to take our country said we're going to take our country said we're going to take our country back from the death spiral that is back from the death spiral that is back from the death spiral that is currently in.
Imagine if this much media currently in imagine if this much media currently in imagine if this much media attention was spent telling, the truth attention was spent telling. The truth attention was spent telling the truth about the real problems facing our - about the real problems facing our - about the real problems facing our country.
Imagine of the media spent as country. Imagine of the media spent as country. Imagine of the media spent as much time telling the story of Sarah much time telling the story of Sarah much time telling the story of Sarah root. One of the great young people, one root, one of the great young people, one root, one of the great young people, one of the truly great outstanding young of the truly great outstanding young of the truly great outstanding young people, all of the ugly things being said, People all of the ugly things being said, people all of the ugly things being said by Hillary Clinton and our opponents and by Hillary Clinton and our opponents and by Hillary Clinton and our opponents.
And you know what they say about me and boy, you know what they say about me and boy, you know what they say about me and boy is that untrue. They're spending hundreds is that untrue. They're spending hundreds is that untrue. They're spending hundreds of millions of dollars on ads that a of millions of dollars on ads that a of millions of dollars on ads that a phony and false ads are disgusting and phony and false ads are disgusting and phony and false ads are disgusting and most People know it or we wouldn't be - most people know it or we wouldn't be.
Most people know it or we wouldn't be doing so. Well. Believe me, she's funded by doing so. Well. Believe me, she's funded by doing so well. Believe me, she's funded by the big banks and Wall Street dog and the big banks and Wall Street dog and the big banks and Wall Street dog. And nothing more than a desperate attempt by nothing more than a desperate attempt by nothing more than a desperate attempt by a failed leader.
That's all she is said, a failed leader. That's all she is said, a failed leader. That's all she is said. Remember, she lost badly to Barack Obama. Remember she lost badly to Barack Obama. Remember, she lost badly to Barack Obama when she won and I think she's going to when she won and I think she's going to when she won and I think she's going to lose badly to Donald Trump.
She's playin in order to keep that rig. She's playin in order to keep that rig. She's playin in order to keep that rig system going. There's nothing they won't system going. There's nothing they won't system going. There's nothing they won't say or do no lie. They won't tell no say or do no lie. They won't tell no say or do no lie.
They won't tell no amount of money. They won't spend to try amount of money. They won't spend to try amount of money. They won't spend to try and bully voters into giving them what and bully voters into giving them what and bully voters into giving them what they want. They lie like. I've never seen they want.
They lie like I've never seen they want. They lie like I've never seen anything before the commercials of phony anything before the commercials of phony anything before the commercials of phony commercials. They're disgusting and even commercials. They're disgusting and even commercials. They're disgusting and even people on her side are saying that's people on her side are saying that's people on her side are saying that's going too far going too far.
Going too far. It's very interesting. This is November. It's very interesting. This is November. It's very interesting. This is November 8th. The American people are going to 8th, the American people are going to 8th. The American people are going to reject the cynicism of the past and reject the cynicism of the past and reject the cynicism of the past and embrace the optimism of the future.
We embrace the optimism of the future. We embrace the optimism of the future. We have a great future. The old attacks are - have a great future. The old attacks are - have a great future. The old attacks are not going to work anymore. The Clinton not going to work anymore. The Clinton not going to work anymore.
The Clinton gene fear-mongering isn't going to gene fear-mongering isn't going to gene fear-mongering isn't going to resonate with anyone, but the most resonate with anyone but the most resonate with anyone. But the most radical factions of their far left basin radical factions of their far left basin radical factions of their far left basin and has gotten far left.
I want to and has gotten far left. I want to and has gotten far left. I want to empower the people, Hillary Clinton wants empower the people, Hillary Clinton wants empower the people, Hillary Clinton wants to spare the people, empowering people to spare the people, empowering people to spare the people, empowering people begins with three simple words.
And you begins with three simple words and you begins with three simple words and you know what those words are. Our economy is know what those words are. Our economy is know what those words are. Our economy is going to soar. We are going to make our going to soar, we are going to make our going to soar, we are going to make our country so strong and so powerful and we country so strong and so powerful and we country so strong and so powerful and we need The power because other people are need the power because other people are need the power because other people are not going to want to mess with the - not going to want to mess with the - not going to want to mess with the United States of America.
United States of America, United States of America, wages will rise. We will make new friends, wages will rise, we will make new friends, wages will rise. We will make new friends abroad and we will achieve like we abroad and we will achieve like we abroad and we will achieve like we haven't achieved before and we will haven't achieved before and we will haven't achieved before and we will achieve a lasting peace through Strength achieve a lasting peace through strength, achieve a lasting peace through strength.
We will be a country of laws and a we will be a country of laws and a we will be a country of laws and a country of great, great success. Our country of great, great success, our country of great, great success, our cities will be safe, sound and secure. Our cities will be safe, sound and secure. Our cities will be safe, sound and secure.
Our government will be honest, ethical and government will be honest. Ethical and government will be honest. Ethical and responsible ruled by special interests responsible ruled by special interests responsible ruled by special interests will be over over over the rule of the will be over over over the rule of the will be over over over the rule of the American people will begin.
So let's get American people will begin, so let's get American people will begin. So let's get out and vote for November 8 and create out and vote for November 8 and create out and vote for November 8 and create the future our children deserve together the future. Our children deserve together the future our children deserve together.
We will make America strong again. We will make America strong again. We will make America strong again together. We will make America wealthy together. We will make America wealthy together. We will make America wealthy again which we have to do together. We again which we have to do together, we again which we have to do together, we will make America united again, we will will make America united again, we will will make America united again, we will make America safe again.
We will make - make America safe again. We will make make America safe again. We will make America great again later than ever. America great again later than ever. America great again later than ever before. Thank you. Thank you very much before. Thank you. Thank you very much before thank you. Thank you very much.