Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Pueblo, CO|October 3, 2016
Thank you. [Applause]
It is so great to be here in Pueblo, Colorado. We love Pueblo. [Applause]
And those two gentlemen are amazing men and I want to thank them for being with us. [Applause]
You know, Pueblo's called Home of the Heroes"; did you know that? [Applause]""ou know
Because of your proud tradition of military service. Pueblo's the home of four Medal of Honor recipients, and I just got the endorsement of 19, all together -- 19. So when you have 19, that's pretty good. But you have four, which is amazing.
And as President Eisenhower said, There must be something in the water" out here in Pueblo
Colorado his home to six military bases. We're going to eliminate the defense sequester and rebuild our military. We're going to strengthen it; we're going to make it truly, truly strong again. [Applause]
Another great Colorado legacy is hunting and fishing. [Applause]
My sons know that very well; they're here all the time. We're going to conserve your land for the future generations and we're going to save your Second Amendment, which is under siege. [Applause]
We've got a lot of people in this room. This is very impressive. Thank you. Thank you. It's a great honor. It's a great honor. One other issue of such great importance in Colorado is energy. Crooked Hillary Clinton wants to shut down the mines, and shut down shale, and shut down oil and natural gas, and we're going to end the war on American energy and we are going to put the miners back to work. They have to be put back to work. [Applause]
I've also made a centerpiece of my economic revitalization plan, the largest middle-class tax cut since Ronald Reagan and the largest regulatory reform in American history. We're going to do that. [Applause]
And Hillary Clinton is going to increase your taxes very, very substantially, and she admits it. [Booing]
At least she admits it. [Booing]
But that because I know how overtaxed and overregulated the working people and companies in this country are. A central issue I would like to address today is our broken tax code -- an issue of concern to all Americans. Along with securing our borders, rebuilding our military, keeping us safe from terrorism, redoing our trade deals and bringing back jobs -- and they're sort of one in the same. [Applause]
Fixing our broken tax code is one of the main reasons I'm running for President. I've been saying from the beginning of this campaign how ridiculous, complex and, yes, unfair the tax system is. It is an unfair system, and so complex that very few people understand it. Fortunately, I understand it. [Applause]
This is not the fault of the IRS, but the political class that is owned outright by the special interests and lobbyists, believe me. It's these politicians who wrote the tax code and who are constantly adding, revising and changing an already overcomplicated set of laws, all at the behest of their favorite donors and special interests who want certain provisions put in and they won't take no for an answer.
It's thousands of pages long and almost no one understands it. The average American would need an army of accountants and lawyers to wade through -- and wade through it. Many so-called experts, due to their sheer size and complexity of the code, don't have a clue what these pages represent. These are experts -- they get payed and they don't even know what it represents.
The unfairness of the tax laws is unbelievable. It's something I've been talking about for a long time, despite, frankly, being a big beneficiary of the laws. But I'm working for you now; I'm not working for Trump. [Applause]
Believe me. [Applause]
I understand the tax laws better than almost anyone, which is why I am one who can truly fix them. I understand it. I get it. And that is what I commit to do. We want fairness, we want money brought in, and we want money to be spent when it goes out because they spend our tax dollars so unfairly and unwisely; remember that.
As a businessman and real estate developer, I have legally used the tax laws to my benefit, and to the benefit of my company, my investors and my employees. I mean, honestly, I have brilliantly -- I have brilliantly used those laws. I have often said on the campaign trail that I have a fiduciary responsibility to pay no more tax than is legally required, like anybody else, or -- [Applause]
'-- put another way, to pay as little tax as legally possible. And I must tell you, I hate the way they spend our tax dollars. [Applause]
And, believe me, that makes a difference. As a major real estate developer in this country, and throughout the world, I face enormous taxes -- city taxes, state taxes, sales taxes, excise taxes, employee taxes, federal taxes, VAT taxes -- different countries.
It's my job to minimize the overall tax burden to the greatest extent possible, which allows me to reinvest in neighborhoods, in workers, and build amazing properties which fuel tremendous growth in their communities, and always help our great providers of jobs, and we have to help our small businesses. [Applause]
What it's all about. It's what it's all about. [Applause]
The news media is now obsessed with an alleged tax filing from the 1990s, at the end of one of the most brutal economic downturns in our country's history, if you remember the early 90s. Other than, I would say, 1928, there was nothing even close.
The conditions facing real estate developers in that early 90s period were almost as bad as the Great Depression of 1929, and far worse than the great recession of 2008 -- not even close.
What had been a booming economy in the year of Ronald Reagan, changed dramatically, and the business landscape changed with it. Bank failures and collapse, the absolute, total destruction of the Savings and Loan industry, and the implosion of the retail market and real estate in general, something we've never seen anything like it.
Many businesspeople, including many of my competitors and some of my friends, were not able to survive. Companies, jobs and opportunities were lost and lives were destroyed as tens of thousands of people were put out of work. Some of the biggest and strongest people and companies went absolutely bankrupt -- which I never did, by the way. Are you proud of me? [Applause]
I would have loved to use that card, but I just didn't want to do it. Thank you. Yet, today, my company is bigger, stronger, far greater assets than it's ever had before; more premium properties. We've never done better. It's the strongest we've ever been and we employ thousands of people, and over the years have employed thousands and thousands of people, which is a thing that, frankly, makes me most happy. That did not happen by chance or luck. It happened by action and talent. [Applause]
A lot of talent. [Applause]
I was able to use the tax laws of this country, and my business acumen, to dig out of the real estate mess -- you would call it a depression -- when few others were able to do what I did. And those most --
You're smart.
I'm a star. Thank you; you are too. [Applause]
Oh, they were amazing times. In those most difficult times, when so many had their backs to the wall, I reached within myself and delivered for my company, my employees, my family, and the communities where my properties existed -- and I really delivered.
Those who spend their lives within the confines of government work, and who know virtually nothing of business, fail to understand the skill, dedication, the sheer grit it takes for a company to climb out of an economic depression of the scale we had in the early 90s. [Applause]
People like my opponent, Hillary Clinton, whose only -- [Booing]
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up!
Folks, let's win on November 8th, okay? Let's just win. [Applause]
Anyway, her only method of making money is by selling government favors and granting access to special interests, know nothing about how businesses succeed and grow. Hillary Clinton has never created a single job in her entire life. By the way, we have somebody who has -- where's Bernie Marcus? Where's Bernie? Bernie Marcus, founder of Home Depot. [Applause]
Go to Home Depot. He only created about -- hundreds of thousands. How many jobs has Home Depot produced right now, Bernie? How much?
Millions -- millions. Bernie, that's a lot of jobs. A great guy; a great man; an unbelievable entrepreneur, and somebody that put a lot of people to work. And Home Depot is a terrific company. And thank you for being here, Bernie. Appreciated it. Thank you. [Applause]
They haven't added a single dollar of value -- people like Hillary -- to the American economy. Hillary Clinton hasn't made an honest dollar in her entire life.
All she does is takes from you, takes from your country, and peddles influence to donors, special interests and foreign actors for astronomical dollars like you've never seen before. It's corruption of the highest order. You know it, I know it, she knows it, and plenty of other people know it, but they're not doing anything about it.
While I made my money as a very successful private business person, following the law all the way, Hillary Clinton made her money as a corrupt public official, breaking the law, and putting her government office up for sale. And now she's running for President. [Booing]
By her own account, Hillary Clinton left the White House dead broke -- she said dead broke". [Booing]""y her own account
And then, remember? She became a Senator for New York; did nothing. Remember the jobs she was going to produce? She never produced them. And then she became Secretary of State. And, now, she and her husband have made more than $200 million without building a company or creating a single thing of value. [Booing]
During the early 90s, as companies went absolutely bust -- they were collapsing all over the place -- left and right -- the media and powers that be said Donald Trump -- he could never
They said I had billions of dollars in borrowing, which is true -- and hundreds of millions of dollars in personal guarantees, which is true -- and no pathway out, which is false. That was a bad time. That was an ugly time. [Applause]
A lot of people -- you'll never hear from them again from that period. But I never had any doubts whatsoever; and, most importantly, I never, ever gave up or even thought about giving up. [Applause]
That's because I knew in my heart that when the chips are down is when is I perform the very best. That is always when I perform the best. That's when I make my best decisions, judgments. Remember Bernie saying Hillary Clinton has bad judgment? And, honestly, my single greatest asset, probably, is temperament because if you didn't have the right temperament, you could have never escaped that financial jungle, that's for sure. [Applause]
Single greatest asset is my temperament. And I have a temperament for winning. You have to win. We have a temperament -- all of us -- for winning. [Applause]
And when people make the mistake of underestimating me, that's when they are really in for their biggest surprise -- same thing with a lot of the people in this room. Just look at what happened in the primary? Trump's running. Oh
What we've done is amazing. And now we have one person left -- Crooked Hillary. And we have to beat her on November 8th, and you have to get out and vote, and you have to get out and make calls, and you have to do -- and, jokingly, I like to say If you're sick -- if you get the absolute worst prognosis from the doctor
