Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Sacramento, CA|June 1, 2016
[This was transcribed and punctuated by Factba.se's AI, Margaret, and automatically corrected based on her understanding of Donald Trump's speech patterns. It has not been edited by a human. Please double-check any quotes against the video.]
Wow, what is going on look at what are Wow, what is going on, look at what are Wow, what is going on look at, what are those people doing so far over there, those people doing so far over there, those people doing so far over there, what Are they doing over there? Thank you. What are they doing over there?
Thank you. What are they doing over there? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Veterans, I very much. Thank you very much veterans. I very much. Thank you very much veterans. I love the veterans. Hey, did I have a hard love the veterans? Hey, did I have a hard love the veterans? Hey, did I have a hard time?
So I raised them of six million time, so I raised them of six million time. So I raised them of six million dollars for the veterans and the press dollars for the veterans and the press dollars for the veterans and the press was killing me, unbelievable. You know, you was killing me, unbelievable. You know, you was killing me, unbelievable.
You know you do something like that and it takes your do something like that and it takes your do something like that and it takes your heart a little bit. You raise all of that heart a little bit. You raise all of that heart a little bit. You raise all of that money. I have so many veterans calling me money.
I have so many veterans calling me money. I have so many veterans calling me and thanking me. These groups have called and thanking me. These groups have called and thanking me. These groups have called me and thanked me, but the press - they me and thanked me, but the press they me and thanked me, but the press they always want to make it look as bad as always want to make it look as bad as always want to Make it look as bad as possible, these are bad people, folks just possible.
These are bad people, folks just possible. These are bad people folks just in case you haven't figured they are bad in case you haven't figured they are bad in case you haven't figured they are bad bad people. So we're gonna have a good bad people. So we're gonna have a good bad people. So we're gonna have a good time.
You know Sacramento, which I know time, you know Sacramento, which I know time, you know Sacramento, which I know and I like and we're going to do and I like and we're going to do and I like and we're going to do something because I'm going to Make a something because I'm going to make a something because I'm going to make a real run in California, okay?
Philately real run in California, okay. Philately real run in California, okay, philately and - and only because we're running and - and only because we're running and - and only because we're running against Hillary, she's got to be weak who against Hillary, she's got to be weak, who against Hillary, she's got to be weak.
Who do you think is gonna win tomorrow, do you think is gonna win tomorrow, do you think is gonna win tomorrow? Bernie or Hillary? I don't even know I - Bernie or Hillary, I don't even know I - Bernie or Hillary, I don't even know. I don't know, I'm not a fan of Bernie, I don't know. I'm not a fan of Bernie.
I don't know. I'm not a fan of Bernie, I have to tell you, but possibly it looks have to tell you, but possibly it looks have to tell you. But possibly it looks like, you know she can't close them out. I like you know she can't close them out. I like you know she can't close them out. I had to close out 16 governors and had to close out 16 governors and had to close out 16 governors and Senators and talented people.
We had to Senators and talented people. We had to Senators and talented people. We had to close out 16. She cannot close out Bernie, close out 16. She cannot close out Bernie, close out 16. She cannot close out, Bernie. We're going to see and by the way on we're going to see and by the way on we're going to see and by the way on June 7th to go out and vote, you know why June 7th to go out and vote.
You know why June 7th to go out and vote, you know why got ta vote, even though I'll say the got ta vote, even though I'll say the got ta vote, even though I'll say the competition is ended, right, it's ended, competition is ended, right. It's ended competition is ended, right? It's ended, but you got to go out and vote because - but you got to go out and vote because - but you got to go out and vote because we're looking for records.
We've broken, we're looking for records. We've broken - we're looking for records. We've broken the all-time record in the history of the all-time record in the history of the all-time record in the history of the Republican Party all-time record and the Republican Party all-time record and the Republican Party all-time record and never been.
I mean think Ronald Reagan never been. I mean think Ronald Reagan never been. I mean think Ronald Reagan, Dwight Eisenhower, all of them. We broken Dwight Eisenhower, all of them. We broken Dwight Eisenhower, all of them. We broken it by millions and the more we get it by millions and the more we get it by millions and the more we get because we have a lot of great play because we have a lot of great play because we have a lot of great Play house Dakota, so do the best you can and house Dakota, so do the best you can and house Dakota, so do the best you can.
And I know we're a lot of live television. I know we're a lot of live television. I know we're a lot of live television, Rio and South Dakota, so do the best you Rio and South Dakota, so do the best you Rio and South Dakota. So do the best you can. And I know we're a lot of life can and I know we're a lot of life can and I know we're a lot of life vision right now.
So all those other vision right now. So all those other vision right now. So all those other states get out because it's really nice states get out because it's really nice states get out because it's really nice to have a mandate. We'll have a big to have a mandate. We'll have a big to have a mandate.
We'll have a big beautiful mandate so that when we win, we beautiful mandate so that when we win, we beautiful mandate so that when we win, we win with strength, okay, so get out and win with strength, okay, so get out and win with strength, okay. So get out and vote and I'll tell you what, you know we vote and I'll tell you what, you know we vote and I'll tell you what, you know, we have a movement going on folks.
They're have a movement going on folks. They're have a movement going on, folks, they're writing about it all over, no matter writing about it all over, no matter writing about it all over, no matter where you go covers of Time magazine where you go covers of Time magazine where you go covers of Time Magazine many, many covers I'm on, I love you too many, many covers I'm on.
I love you too many, many covers I'm on. I love you too look at that. That's a guy that said that look at that, that's a guy that said that look at that. That's a guy that said that that's a guy sounded like a tough cookie. That's a guy sounded like a tough cookie that's a guy sounded like a tough cookie.
Where are you? I like that guy, but we're - where are you? I like that guy, but we're - where are you? I like that guy, but we're on the cover of every magazine, every on the cover of every magazine, every on the cover of every magazine, every magazine, I mean, literally every magazine magazine, I mean, literally every magazine magazine.
I mean, literally every magazine and oftentimes one to cover many, many and oftentimes one to cover many, many and oftentimes one to cover many, many times. And I will tell you the reason is times and I will tell you the reason is times. And I will tell you the reason is one of them right there, they're holding one of them right there.
They're holding one of them right there. They're holding it up. The reason is because we have a it up. The reason is because we have a it up, the reason is because we have a movement because we want to take our movement because we want to take our movement because we want to take our country back. We want to make America country back.
We want to make America country back, we want to make America great again. We want to make America great. Again. We want to make America great again. We want to make America first. It's going to be first. So thank you by the way, do you like that airplane is by the way, do you like that airplane is by the way, do you like that airplane is good, right, made in America, good right, made in America, good right, made in America, made in America.
Boeing made in America, made in America, Boeing made in America, made in America, Boeing made in America. So very important you see the way our - so very important you see the way our - so very important you see the way our country is running, it's running badly, country is running, it's running badly, country is running, it's running badly, you go to the airport, you see The TSA a, you go to the airport, you see the TSA a, you go to the airport, you see the TSA, a friend of mine said he waited six hours.
Friend of mine said he waited six hours, friend of mine said he waited six hours and then by the time he got onto the - and then by the time he got onto the - and then by the time he got onto the plane, guess what the plane was Gone plane guess what the plane was gone plane, guess what the plane was gone.
There was no getting on and it was not a - there was no getting on and it was not a - there was no getting on and it was not a good experience. But that's happening all good experience, but that's happening all good experience, but that's happening all over the country and that's just one over the country and that's just one over the country and that's just one group.
Everything's run the same way as group. Everything's run the same way as group. Everything's run the same way as TSA is run our veterans. It's horrible. TSA is run our veterans. It's horrible. TSA is run our veterans. It's horrible what's happening to our veterans, illegal, what's happening to our veterans, illegal, what's happening to our veterans, illegal immigrants are treated.
In many cases, immigrants are treated. In many cases, immigrants are treated, in many cases better than our veterans, better than our veterans, better than our veterans. It's a disgraceful thing and we're going - it's a disgraceful thing and we're going - it's a disgraceful thing and we're going to take care of our veterans properly to take care of our veterans properly to take care of our veterans properly properly.
You know, Hillary Clinton said properly, you know, Hillary Clinton said properly, you know, Hillary Clinton said our veterans are being treated just fine. Our veterans are being treated just fine. Our veterans are being treated just fine. If you can believe that one, you remember if you can believe that one, you remember if you can believe that one, you remember that a few months ago and then the guy that a few months ago and then the guy that a few months ago.
And then the guy running the VA said waiting lines don't running, the VA said waiting lines don't running the VA said waiting lines don't matter, they have long waiting lines at matter. They have long waiting lines at matter. They have long waiting lines at Disney. You believe that - so this - this is Disney, you believe that - so this - this is Disney, you believe that.
So this - this is what we have. Very importantly in terms what we have very importantly in terms what we have very importantly in terms of this election. So we're going to come of this election, so we're going to come of this election. So we're going to come to California now. Everybody said that to California.
Now everybody said that to California. Now everybody said that for a Republican to run in California for a Republican to run in California for a Republican to run in California, it's not going to happen. But I'm sort of - it's not going to happen, but I'm sort of - it's not going to happen. But I'm sort of different, you know, I'm like different, you know, last night, so they say there's, you know, last night, so they say there's, you know, last night, so they say there's 11 thousand people in the hangar, last 11 thousand people in the hangar last 11 Thousand people in the hangar last night, I watched as Bernie had a crowd of night, I watched as Bernie had a crowd of night, I watched as Bernie had a crowd of 3,000 people, that's not bad, 3,000 people, that's not bad 3,000 people.
That's not bad. That's up it, but listen, and the news that's up it, but listen and the news that's up it. But listen, and the news media said, Bernie Sanders had this media said Bernie Sanders had this media said Bernie Sanders had this massive crowd of 3,000 people. It was massive crowd of 3,000 people.
It was massive crowd of 3,000 people. It was unbelievable, unbelievable, unbelievable. 3,000, you know what? 3,000 people is, it's 3,000, you know what, 3,000 people is, it's 3,000, you know what 3,000 people is. It's like a small audience. It's like - forget like a small audience, it's like - forget like a small audience, it's like forget it.
And when we have a crowd like this, it and when we have a crowd like this, it and when we have a crowd like this, look at us, I mean these people are in look at us. I mean these people are in look at us. I mean, these people are in the other side of the hangar. We love you. The other side of the hangar.
We love you. The other side of the hangar. We love you just as much, right, just as much, but just as much, right, just as much. But just as much right, just as much but 3,000 people and they made such a big 3,000 people and they made such a big 3,000 people and they made such a big deal out of it. We had one recently where deal out of it.
We had one recently where deal out of it, we had one recently where I was at 17,000, Bernie was at 7:00 and I was at 17,000. Bernie was at 7:00 and I was at 17,000. Bernie was at 7:00 and they said Donald Trump made a speech. They said Donald Trump made a speech, they said Donald Trump made a speech tonight, different locations, Donald Trump tonight, different locations, Donald Trump tonight, different locations.
Donald Trump made his speech tonight, oh his la blah made his speech tonight, oh his la blah made his speech tonight. Oh, his la blah, blah, right? Then they said Bernie Sanders, blah, right? Then they said Bernie Sanders, blah, right? Then they said Bernie Sanders had a massive crowd of 7,000. I said man had a massive crowd of 7,000. I said man had a massive crowd of 7,000. I said, man, I'll tell you these guys, these guys are - I'll tell you these guys, these guys are - I'll tell you these guys, these guys are bad.
So that's it bad. So that's it bad. So that's it. Now look, many things are going to happen. Now. Look, many things are going to happen now look, many things are going to happen, we're going to come in, we're going to - we're going to come in, we're going to - we're going to come in, we're going to work California hard.
We're going to work work California hard. We're going to work work California hard. We're going to work the state of Washington hard. We may even the state of Washington hard. We may even the state of Washington hard. We may even work Oregon hard because we've been work Oregon hard because we've been work Oregon hard because we've been really treated up there, great.
We're really treated up there, great. We're really treated up there, great. We're going to work a lot of states that you going to work a lot of states that you going to work a lot of states that you wouldn't work and we're going to work, wouldn't work and we're going to work, wouldn't work and we're going to work Him hard, we're going to be here a lot him hard.
We're going to be here a lot him hard. We're going to be here a lot. And I think and I think and I think I think we have a chance, I think we have - I think we have a chance. I think we have - I think we have a chance. I think we have a good chance. We had 31,000 people, two, a good chance. We had 31,000 people, two, a good chance.
We had 31,000 people two weeks ago, right here, weeks ago, right here, weeks ago right here, we had 31,000 people two weeks ago and we had 31,000 people two weeks ago. And we had 31,000 people two weeks ago and by the way, what they covered that was by the way what they covered that was by the way what they covered, that was when the kid was stomping on the cop car when the kid was stomping on the Cop car when the kid was stomping on the cop car when they were burning the American when they were burning the American when they were burning the American flags, they had kids stopping in the car flags.
They had kids stopping in the car flags. They had kids stopping in the car, remember, so they didn't like talking, remember, so they didn't like talking, remember. So they didn't like talking about it too much. Last week. I got the about it too much last week. I got the about it too much last week. I got the endorsement of the National Rifle endorsement of the National Rifle endorsement of the National Rifle Association, NRA, that was the earliest Association, NRA, that was the earliest Association, NRA. That was the earliest endorsement that I think they've ever endorsement that I think they've ever endorsement that I think they've ever given.
And it was before the convention given - and it was before the convention given - and it was before the convention, which never happens, who's going to the - which never happens, who's going to the - which never happens, who's going to the conventional? How do you go into the conventional? How do you go into the conventional?
How do you go into the convention? We'd have a lot of people convention. We'd have a lot of people convention. We'd have a lot of people. We're going to do a good job in. We're going to do a good job in - we're going to do a good job in Cleveland. And let me tell you, are we Cleveland? And let me tell you, are we Cleveland?
And let me tell you, are we going to keep our guns, don't worry about going to keep our guns, don't worry about going to keep our guns, don't worry about it, man. You need them. Remember this it man, you need them. Remember this it - man, you need them. Remember this Hillary Clinton and this is a hundred Hillary Clinton and this is a hundred Hillary Clinton and this is a hundred percent.
Hillary Clinton who lies, I mean percent. Hillary Clinton who lies, I mean percent. Hillary Clinton, who lies. I mean, she lies you remember that I started, she lies you. Remember that I started, she lies you. Remember that I started that she lies, she lies. She made a speech that she lies, she lies. She made a speech that she lies.
She lies - she made a speech and she's making another one tomorrow, and she's making another one tomorrow, and she's making another one tomorrow, and they sent me a copy of the speech and they sent me a copy of the speech and they sent me a copy of The speech and it was such lies about my foreign and it was such lies about my foreign and it was such lies about my foreign policy that they said I want Japan to policy that they said I want Japan to policy that they said I want Japan To nuke, I want Japan to get nuclear weapons nuke, I want Japan to get nuclear weapons nuke, I want Japan to get nuclear weapons, give me a break, see they don't say it.
I give me a break, see they don't say it. I give me a break. See they don't say it, I want Japan and Germany and Saudi Arabia want Japan and Germany and Saudi Arabia want Japan and Germany and Saudi Arabia and South Korea and many of the NATO say and South Korea and many of the NATO say and South Korea.
And many of the NATO say nations, they owe us tremendous what nations they owe us tremendous, what nations they owe us tremendous, what we're taking care of all these people. We're taking care of all these people. We're taking care of all these people. And what I want them to do is pay up now and what I want them to do is pay up now and what I want them to do is pay up.
Now remember this in a nice way and we'll remember this in a nice way and we'll remember this in a nice way and we'll have a great relationship. But we're have a great relationship, but we're have a great relationship. But we're talking about billions and billions. And talking about billions and billions and talking about billions and billions and billions of dollars, we're talking about billions of dollars.
We're talking about billions of dollars. We're talking about danger. You know, we have a treaty with danger. You know, we have a treaty with danger. You know, we have a treaty with Japan that if the United States gets Japan that if the United States gets Japan that if the United States gets attacked, think of this.
If the United attacked, think of this. If the United attacked, think of this. If the United States gets attacked, they don't have to - States gets attacked, they don't have to. States gets attacked. They don't have to do anything. They can watch it on, do anything they can watch it on, do anything they can watch it on television, television, television.
They'll watch it on television made in - they'll watch it on television, made in - they'll watch it on television made in Japan television. We don't make Japan television. We don't make Japan television. We don't make televisions anymore. So we can't say that televisions anymore. So we can't say that televisions anymore, so we can't say that, but they'll watch it on a Sony, but they'll watch it on a Sony, but they'll watch it on a Sony television, right?
If they get attacked, we television, right? If they get attacked, we television, right? If they get attacked, we have to come to their aid World War, have to come to their aid World War, have to come to their aid World War three or whatever the hell happens, right? Three or whatever the hell happens, right?
Three or whatever the hell happens, right? So we love Japan, we love Germany, we love. So we love Japan, we love Germany, we love. So we love Japan, we love Germany, we love all these places. They got to help us all these places. They got to help us all these places, they got to help us, they got to take care of.
We - we are not - they got to take care of. We - we are not - they got to take care of. We - we are not being compensated for what we're doing, being compensated for what we're doing, being compensated for what we're doing. And what I do say is this to make the - and what I do say is this to make the - and what I do say is this to make the right deal, the art of the deal to make right deal the art of the deal to make right Deal the art of the deal to make the right deal, you have to be prepared the right deal, you have to be prepared the right deal.
You have to be prepared to walk a general recently got on to walk a general recently got on to walk a general recently got on television and he said Donald Trump, he television and he said Donald Trump, he television and he said Donald Trump. He was told to do this by Obama who by the was told to do this by Obama who by the was told to do this by Obama who by the way doesn't have a clue.
This is a way, doesn't have a clue. This is a way - doesn't have a clue. This is a president who doesn't have a clue and president who doesn't have a clue and president who doesn't have a clue and this president now is very intrigued. This president now is very intrigued. This president now is very intrigued because he's going to start campaigning because he's going to start campaigning because he's going to start campaigning well if he campaigns.
That means I'm well if he campaigns, that means I'm well if he campaigns, that means I'm allowed to hit him. Just like I hit, Bill allowed to hit him just like I hit Bill allowed to hit him just like I hit Bill Clinton, I guess, right? If he doesn't. I Clinton, I guess, right if he doesn't. I Clinton, I guess, right?
If he doesn't, I don't care. But if he campaigns and I don't care, but if he campaigns and I don't care, but if he campaigns and I think he wants to because he wants to think he wants to because he wants to think he wants to because he wants to keep this terrible Agenda going where keep this terrible agenda going, where keep this terrible agenda going, where everybody is ripping us with the world, everybody is ripping us with the world.
Everybody is ripping us with the world is ripping us off, oh, there's - somebody is ripping us off, oh, there's - somebody is ripping us off, oh, there's somebody and that's okay, don't worry about him. And that's okay, don't worry about him. And that's okay. Don't worry about him. Not not much, I get them out, get them out, not not much.
I get them out, get them out, not not much. I get them out, get them out of here, folks get them out of here, do we of here folks get them out of here. Do we of here folks get them out of here, do we love these Trump rallies? Do we love them? Love these Trump rallies? Do we love them? Love these Trump rallies?
Do we love them all right? Get him out of here, go ahead. All right, get him out of here, go ahead, all right, get him out of here, go ahead out out. This is a hell of a crowd. I'll tell you this is a hell of a crowd. I'll tell you this is a hell of a crowd. I'll tell you, tell you this is great. Are you getting - tell you this is great, are you getting - tell you this is great, are you getting him out?
Where is he him out? Where is he him out? Where is he? Where is it uh-huh? Go ahead, get him out. Where is it uh-huh? Go ahead, get him out, where is it uh-huh, go ahead, get him out right, get him out, okay, that's fine, right, get him out. Okay, that's fine, right, get him out. Okay, that's fine. He's not gonna hurt anybody.
You know he's not gonna hurt anybody. You know he's not gonna hurt anybody. You know what, I always tell them what I always tell them. What I always tell them be very gentle. Please don't hurt him be very gentle. Please don't hurt him be very gentle. Please don't hurt him this way. I don't get bad press.
Okay, this way. I don't get bad press. Okay, this way I don't get bad press, okay, don't hurt him, don't hurt him, don't hurt him, don't hurt him, don't hurt him, don't hurt him. All right? So look, we're gonna change. So all right. So look, we're gonna change. So all right. So look, we're gonna change so many things in our country.
We're gonna, many things in our country, we're gonna, many things in our country. We're gonna make great trade deals. We're gonna have make great trade deals. We're gonna have make great trade deals, we're gonna have a strong border and we're gonna have a a strong border and we're gonna have a a strong border and we're gonna have a wall and we are going to have a wall and Wall and we are going to have a wall and wall and we are going to have a wall and you know who is going to pay for the, you know, who is going to pay for the, you know, who is going to pay for the wall who And by the way, 100 percent not wall who - and by the way, 100 percent not wall who - and by the way, 100 percent, not even a question.
We have a trade even a question, we have a trade even a question, we have a trade imbalance. We have a trade deficit right imbalance. We have a trade deficit right imbalance. We have a trade deficit right now with Mexico 58 billion dollars. We now with Mexico 58 billion dollars, we now with Mexico 58 billion dollars, we are not including all the drugs.
They're are not including all the drugs. They're are not including all the drugs they're sending over here, which is probably sending over here, which is probably sending over here, which is probably triple. And we're gonna have a wall and triple and we're gonna have a wall and triple and we're gonna have a wall and it's going to work last week.
I got the - it's going to work last week. I got the - it's going to work last week, I got the endorsement from the Border Patrol agent endorsement from the Border Patrol agent endorsement from the Border Patrol agent 16,500. They need the wall, they want the 16,500, they need the wall, they want the 16,500, they need.
The wall, they want the wall, they said to me, mr. Trump, we need wall, they said to me mr. Trump, we need wall, they said to me mr. Trump, we need the wall, it's a tool, it's another tool, the wall, it's a tool, it's another tool. The wall, it's a tool, it's another tool, it's our most important tool, but we need - it's our most important tool, but we need - it's our most important tool, but we need the wall look at that.
Latinos for Trump the wall look at that Latinos for Trump the wall look at that Latinos for Trump. I love you people, I love you. Thank you. I love you. People, I love you. Thank you. I love you. People, I love you. Thank you. That's what I like, Latinos for Trump. So that's what I like. Latinos for Trump.
So that's what I like. Latinos for Trump. So we're going to do a lot of things folks. We're going to do a lot of things folks. We're going to do a lot of things, folks. We're going to do a lot of things. We're - we're going to do a lot of things. We're - we're going to do a lot of things. We're going to repeal Obamacare and replace it, going to repeal Obamacare and replace it, going to repeal Obamacare and replace it.
It's a disaster. And you know, Obamacare, it's a disaster. And you know, Obamacare, it's a disaster. And you know, Obamacare, the numbers, this is very good. But the numbers, this is very good, but the numbers, this is very good, but Obama's working hard to change it, the Obama's working hard to change it, the Obama's working hard to change it, the numbers are coming out right now.
The numbers are coming out right now. The numbers are coming out right now, the numbers are scheduled to come out on numbers are scheduled to come out on numbers are scheduled to come out on November 1st. The increases are going to November 1st. The increases are going to November 1st. The increases are going to be so large that everybody is going to be so large that everybody is going to be so large that everybody is going to vote for Donald Trump.
It's a catastrophe vote for Donald Trump. It's a catastrophe vote for Donald Trump. It's a catastrophe now Obama is trying to move it into now, Obama is trying to move it into now. Obama is trying to move it into December because if people see the kind December, because if people see the kind December, because if people see the kind of increases that you're talking about of increases that you're talking about of increases that you're talking about could be 40 %, by the way, nobody's going could be 40 %. By the way, nobody's going could be 40 %. By the way, nobody's going to vote for anybody having to do with - to vote for anybody having to do with to vote for anybody having to do with the Obama administration.
So we are going the Obama administration. So we are going the Obama administration. So we are going to make sure that our people don't let to make sure that our people don't let to make sure that our people don't let them move that date November 1st. The them move that date November 1st, the them move that date November 1st, the Obamacare numbers are going to come out, Obamacare numbers are going to come out, Obamacare numbers are going to come out way.
Did you see the kind of increases way? Did you see the kind of increases way did you see the kind of increases that you're gonna have to pay? You're not that you're gonna have to pay, you're not that you're gonna have to pay. You're not gonna believe it on top of which it's no gonna believe it on top of which it's no gonna believe it on top of which it's no good.
It doesn't work. Okay, good, it doesn't work. Okay, good. It doesn't work. Okay. It doesn't work, so a couple of things I - it doesn't work. So a couple of things I - it doesn't work. So a couple of things I have to do this because you know all have to do this because you know all have to do this because you know all about, I do like details that I do like about.
I do like details that I do like about. I do like details that I do like statisticians. I wouldn't want to be a statisticians. I wouldn't want to be a statisticians. I wouldn't want to be a statistician, but when I look at statistician, but when I look at statistician, but when I look at Sacramento, because I love Sacramento, I - Sacramento, because I love Sacramento.
I Sacramento, because I love Sacramento. I have many friends who is not from have many friends who is not from have many friends who is not from Sacramento here there many people that's Sacramento here, there, many people that's Sacramento here, there, many people. That's a lot of people, wow, that's a lot of a lot of people, wow, that's a lot of a lot of people, wow, that's a lot of people that's good.
They come from all people. That's good. They come from all people. That's good. They come from all over. So listen, this is on Sacramento we over. So listen, this is on Sacramento, we over. So listen, this is on Sacramento. We got a note, we got to have this since got a note. We got to have this since got a note.
We got to have this since Bill Clinton signed an agreement to put Bill Clinton, signed an agreement to put Bill Clinton, signed an agreement to put China into the World Trade Organization, China into the World Trade Organization, China into the World Trade Organization. You know about that catastrophe, you know about that catastrophe, you know about that catastrophe.
Sacramento has lost nearly one in five. Sacramento has lost nearly one in five. Sacramento has lost nearly one in five manufacturing jobs, great going, listen to manufacturing jobs, great going, listen to manufacturing jobs, great, going listen to this one, Hillary Clinton when she was this one Hillary Clinton when she was this one Hillary Clinton when she was Secretary of State Secretary of State Secretary of State ran up one trillion dollars in trade, ran up one trillion dollars in trade, ran up one trillion dollars in trade deficit with China one trillion dollars deficit with China one trillion dollars deficit with China one trillion dollars, great job, hillary hillary.
A great job, great job, hillary hillary, a great job, great job. Hillary hillary, a great job. Hillary, you doing a great job, crooked hillary, you doing a great job crooked hillary, you doing a great job crooked, Hillary crooked, crooked Hillary. She is a Hillary crooked, crooked Hillary. She is a Hillary crooked crooked Hillary.
She is a crooked. She's a crooked person, see I be crooked. She's a crooked person, see I be crooked. She's a crooked person. See I be nice. At the same time, Secretary Clinton nice at the same time Secretary Clinton, nice. At the same time Secretary Clinton was surrendering our jobs to China. The was surrendering our jobs to China, the was surrendering our jobs to China, the Chinese government and its supporters, Chinese government and its supporters.
Chinese government and its supporters were funneling huge sums. I mean huge were funneling huge sums. I mean huge were funneling huge sums. I mean, huge sums of money to Bill Clinton so that he sums of money to Bill Clinton so that he sums of money to Bill Clinton so that he gives speeches. So she's giving China all.
Gives speeches so she's giving China all gives speeches, so she's giving China all these deals and China's paying him vast these deals and China's paying him vast these deals and China's paying him vast amounts of money to make speeches great amounts of money to make speeches great Amounts of money to make speeches.
Great job, great job. I'm sure they never job great job. I'm sure they never job great job. I'm sure they never discussed it. I'm sure it had nothing. I'm discussed it. I'm sure it had nothing I'm discussed it. I'm sure it had nothing I'm sure, sure, sure was just a coincidence folks, folks, when was just a coincidence folks, folks, when was just a coincidence folks, folks, when are you gonna get these are crooked, are you gonna get these are crooked, are you gon Na get - these are crooked people.
These are crooked people. They've people. These are crooked people, they've people. These are crooked people. They've been crooked from the beginning. They been crooked from the beginning. They been crooked from the beginning. They were crooked with whitewater. They've were crooked with whitewater. They've were crooked with whitewater.
They've been crooked from the beginning. You look been crooked from the beginning. You look been crooked from the beginning. You look at that foundation, it's pure theft. And at that foundation, it's pure theft. And at that foundation, it's pure theft and pure crookedness read the book, the book pure crookedness read the book, the book pure crookedness read the book, the book is unbelievable.
In fact, now they just is unbelievable. In fact, now they just is unbelievable. In fact, now they just came out with a movie, it's coming out, came out with a movie, it's coming out, came out with a movie. It's coming out like very soon, but read the book like very soon, but read the book like very soon, but read the book, these are crooked people.
We don't need. These are crooked people. We don't need. These are crooked people. We don't need another four years of Clinton, believe me another four years of Clinton, believe me another four years of Clinton, believe me, we don't need it all right, since Bill, we don't need it all right? Since Bill, we don't need it all right.
Since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA okay, people don't Clinton signed NAFTA okay, people don't Clinton signed NAFTA okay. People don't realize. Bill Clinton signed the single realize Bill Clinton signed the single realize Bill Clinton signed the single worst agreement ever made in terms of worst agreement ever made in terms of worst agreement ever made in terms of economic development, it wiped out states economic development.
It wiped out states economic development. It wiped out states including your states it it's taken. So including your states it, it's taken. So including your states it - it's taken so many manufacturing jobs out. You know one, many manufacturing jobs out, you know one, many manufacturing jobs out. You know one New York in a landslide, one of the New York in a landslide, one of the New York in a landslide, one of the reasons I went up to Albany, I went up to reasons I went up to Albany.
I went up to reasons I went up to Albany. I went up to all these places. The state's been wiped all these places. The state's been wiped all these places. The state's been wiped out companies. They moved down to Mexico out companies. They moved down to Mexico out companies. They moved down to Mexico, they moved to other places.
It's a total. They moved to other places. It's a total. They moved to other places. It's a total disaster. Bill Clinton made that deal and disaster Bill Clinton made that deal. And disaster Bill Clinton made that deal and it destroyed the manufacturing in our it destroyed the manufacturing in our it destroyed the manufacturing in our country.
You got to remember that though country, you got to remember that though country, you got to remember that though because to me NAFTA when I - I wasn't sure because to me NAFTA when I - I wasn't sure because to me NAFTA when I - I wasn't sure you know Somebody says he didn't sign, you know, somebody says he didn't sign, you know, somebody says he didn't sign the deal.
I said I thought he did. We Bill the deal. I said I thought he did. We Bill the deal. I said I thought he did. We Bill Clinton signed after the worst roughly Clinton signed after the worst, roughly Clinton signed after the worst, roughly one in five children in Sacramento, live one in five children in Sacramento, live one in five children in Sacramento, live in poverty, no good folks.
We're gonna in poverty, no good folks. We're gonna in poverty, no good folks. We're gonna stop that great people working hard, stop that great people working hard, stop that great people working hard, can't get jobs. You know that 5 % is - it's can't get jobs, you know that 5 % is - it's can't get jobs.
You know that 5 % is - it's a sham, it's a total sham that was put a sham, it's a total sham that was put a sham. It's a total sham that was put there, so that presidents look better there. So that presidents look better there. So that presidents look better, your real number is close to 20 % and if your real number is close to 20 % and if your real number is close to 20 % and if it wasn't despite the fact you like me, it wasn't despite the fact you Like me, it wasn't despite the fact you like me in the military and the border and all in the military and the border and all in the military and the border.
And all that. We wouldn't have crowds like this that we wouldn't have crowds like this that we wouldn't have crowds like this. Every place I go. We wouldn't have crowds. Every place I go, we wouldn't have crowds every place I go, we wouldn't have crowds like this. So since 2000, listen to this like this, so since 2000 listen to this like this.
So since 2000 listen to this, this is not good. I just have to get the - this is not good. I just have to get the - this is not good. I just have to get the paint over with, but you know, here's a paint over with, but you know, here's a paint over with, but you know, here's a story, don't worry about it.
We're gonna story, don't worry about it. We're gonna story. Don't worry about it. We're gonna make it better fast. We're gonna bring - make it better fast. We're gonna bring, make it better fast. We're gonna bring you jobs back, we're gonna make things. So you jobs back, we're gonna make things. So you jobs back, we're gonna make things so much better.
We're not going to let these much better. We're not going to let these much better. We're not going to let these countries get away with what they're countries get away with what they're countries get away with what they're doing there doing there doing there, bring you off, they're taking your jobs, bring you off, they're taking your jobs, bring you off, they're taking Your jobs by the way today in golf by the way today in golf by the way today in golf anybody, few what happened, they moved the anybody, few what happened.
They moved the anybody, few what happened. They moved the World Golf Championship which used to be World Golf Championship which used to be World Golf Championship which used to be Cadillac a great sponsor by the way, Cadillac a great sponsor by the way, Cadillac a great sponsor by the way Cadillac and they wanted It longer they Cadillac and they wanted it longer, they Cadillac and they wanted it longer.
They moved the World Golf Championships from moved the World Golf Championships from moved the World Golf Championships from Miami to Mexico City. Can you believe it Miami to Mexico City? Can you believe it, Miami to Mexico City, can you believe it and you believe it so they move think of and you believe it so they move think of and you believe it.
So they move - think of it, they move - the PGA Tour, moved the it, they move, the PGA Tour moved the it, they move. The PGA Tour moved the World Golf Championships from Miami World Golf Championships from Miami World Golf Championships from Miami where they're furious to Mexico City, not where they're furious to Mexico City, not where they're furious to Mexico City, not good, but that's okay, good.
But that's okay. Good, but that's okay folks, it's all gonna be settled. You vote folks, it's all gonna be settled. You vote folks, it's all gonna be settled. You vote for Donald Trump as president. If I for Donald Trump as president, if I for Donald Trump as president, if I become your president become your president, become your president, this stuff is all gonna stop this stuff.
This stuff is all gonna stop this stuff. This stuff is all gonna stop this stuff is all gonna stop. I mean you know the is all gonna stop. I mean you know the is all gonna stop. I mean you know the story with Kerry are moving to Mexico, story with Kerry are moving to Mexico, story with Kerry are moving to Mexico, Ford moving to Mexico, nabisco, moving to Ford, moving to Mexico, nabisco, moving to Ford, moving to Mexico, nabisco, moving to Mexico, everybody Is moving to Mexico, you Mexico, everybody is moving to Mexico, you Mexico, everybody is moving to Mexico.
You know why? Because our leaders are stupid know why? Because our leaders are stupid know why? Because our leaders are stupid people, I'm telling you there's stupid people. I'm telling you there's stupid people. I'm telling you there's stupid stupid. People led by our president if stupid people led by our president.
If stupid people led by our president, if you call them that, okay, ready, you call them that, okay, ready, you call them that. Okay, ready last year, the Sacramento Bee, does anyone last year the Sacramento Bee does anyone last year the Sacramento Bee, does anyone know what the hell, the Sacramento Bee is, know what the hell, the Sacramento Bee is, know what the hell the Sacramento Bee is?
Because I do - because I do because I do, they were actually very nice to me, which they were actually very nice to me, which they were actually very nice to me, which is amazing actually is amazing. Actually is amazing. Actually, last year, the Sacramento Bee reported last year, the Sacramento Bee reported last year, the Sacramento Bee reported that nearly a third of California's - that nearly a third of California's that nearly a third of California's households struggle each month just for households struggle each month just for Households struggle each month just for basic needs.
They're struggling a third basic needs. They're struggling a third basic needs. They're struggling a third of the households yet despite the of the households. Yet despite the of the households yet despite the widespread financial hardship Hillary widespread financial hardship, Hillary widespread financial hardship, Hillary Clinton wants a 500 % increase in Syrian Clinton wants a 500 % increase in Syrian Clinton wants a 500 % increase in Syrian refugees.
We have no idea, we have no idea she wants that she wants. We have no idea she wants that she wants. We have no idea she wants that. She wants to abolish the Second Amendment to abolish the Second Amendment to abolish the Second Amendment. She doesn't know honestly, I'll tell you, she doesn't know. Honestly.
I'll tell you, she doesn't know. Honestly. I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what folks, she - what I'll tell you what folks, she - what I'll tell you what folks, she doesn't know what the hell she's doing, doesn't know what the hell she's doing, doesn't know what the hell she's doing. It's going to be another four years of it's going to be another four years of it's going to be another four years of disaster.
You probably better off with disaster you probably better off with disaster you probably better off with Bernie, but that's not gonna happen. Bernie, but that's not gonna happen, Bernie, but that's not gonna happen either either either last year. The FBI found that violent last year, the FBI found that violent last year.
The FBI found that violent crime rose faster in Sacramento than in crime, rose faster in Sacramento than in crime, rose faster in Sacramento than in any other of America's 25 largest cities. Any other of America's 25 largest cities. Any other of America's 25 largest cities. You should be ashamed of yourselves like you should be ashamed of yourselves like you should be ashamed of yourselves.
Like the press should be ashamed of the press should be ashamed of the press should be ashamed of themselves, themselves, themselves, all right. Murder rape, robbery and all right, murder, rape, robbery and all right. Murder, rape, robbery and assault, all increased by substantial assault, all increased by substantial assault, all increased by substantial numbers.
Unbelievable. Jerry Brown, yeah, numbers, unbelievable. Jerry Brown, yeah, numbers, unbelievable. Jerry Brown - yeah, he's - I know Jerry Brown. Hey, you know I - he's - I know Jerry Brown hey, you know I - he's - I know Jerry Brown hey, you know, I know Jerry Brown know Jerry Brown know Jerry Brown, who likes Jerry Brown, anybody like Jerry because he just endorsed Hillary.
He said because he just endorsed Hillary, he said because he just endorsed Hillary, he said I want crooked. Hillary, I want that crook. I want crooked. Hillary, I want that crook. I want crooked. Hillary, I want that crook to run my country a trump administration to run my country a trump administration to run my country a trump administration is going to make America work again is going to make America work again, is going to make America work again.
Got ta get rid of the airport lies, we're got ta get rid of the airport lies, we're got ta get rid of, the airport lies, we're gonna rebuild up military, we're gonna gonna rebuild up military, we're gonna gonna rebuild up military we're Gon na invest in missile defense, we're gonna invest in missile defense, we're gonna invest in missile defense.
We're gonna have new roads, bridges, infrastructure, have new roads, bridges infrastructure, have new roads, bridges, infrastructure, all of that stuff. But here's the thing, all of that stuff, but here's the thing, all of that stuff. But here's the thing. Look, look, we have so many things I cut, look, look, we have so many things I cut.
Look, look, we have so many things I cut this article out recently from a paper, this article out recently from a paper. This article out recently from a paper see that this is what a newspaper is see that this is what a newspaper is see that this is what a newspaper is, everything's Internet, they don't read everything's Internet, they don't read everything's Internet.
They don't read these papers anymore, which is great these papers anymore, which is great these papers anymore, which is great because most of them are not worth because most of them are not worth because most of them are not worth anything, anything, anything listen, illegal immigrants get 1261, listen, illegal immigrants get 1261. Listen, illegal immigrants get 1261 dollars more welfare than American dollars, more welfare than American dollars, more welfare than American families.
It's 5,000, 692, think of it families, it's 5,000, 692, think of it families, it's 5,000, 692, think of it illegal immigrants. Getting five thousand illegal immigrants getting five thousand illegal immigrants getting five thousand, six ninety two versus four thousand, four, six, ninety two versus four thousand, four, six, ninety two versus four thousand, four, thirty one, no good, no good.
Can't do it. Thirty one, no good, no good. Can't do it thirty one, no good, no good can't do it. We don't have any money. We're a country, we don't have any money. We're a country, we don't have any money. We're a country that's bust. We can't do it. Okay. Now let that's bust. We can't do it, okay. Now let that's bust.
We can't do it. Okay. Now let me just go over a couple of these points, me just go over a couple of these points, me just go over a couple of these points because we have to - are you ready? I have because we have to - are you ready? I have because we have to - are you ready, I have to - I wrote him down in the plane.
I said to I wrote him down in the plane, I said to I wrote him down in the plane, I said, look, I want to write him down ready. Look, I want to write him down ready. Look, I want to write him down ready. Hillary is not a talented person. In fact, Hillary is not a talented person. In fact, Hillary is not a talented person.
In fact, she's a person with absolutely no. She's a person with absolutely no, she's a person with absolutely no natural talent. All you have to do is natural talent. All you have to do is natural talent. All you have to do is watch her speak and you ever notice even watch her speak and you ever notice even watch her speak and you ever notice even for a minor speech, he has teleprompters for a minor speech.
He has teleprompters for a minor speech. He has teleprompters. Do I have teleprompters here? No. But do I have teleprompters here? No. But do I have teleprompters here? No. But she's got like these minor speeches and she's got like these minor speeches and she's got like these minor speeches and she's going - and I saw this a couple of she's going, and I saw this a couple of she's going, and I saw this a couple of Times see you know four words we're times, see you know four words.
We're times, see you know four words. We're going to win in the north, south east and going to win in the north, south east and going to win in the north, south east and west ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba, oh boy. So instance ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba, oh boy, so instance ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba-ba, oh boy. So instance here, number one.
And I'll copy Bernie here, number one, and I'll copy Bernie here, number one. And I'll copy Bernie, because Bernie's good with us because if because Bernie's good with us, because if because Bernie's good with us, because if I say, if they say always too rough, she's I say if they say always too rough.
She's I say. If they say always too rough, she's not qualified because she has bad, not qualified because she has bad, not qualified because she has bad judgment now who said that Bernie judgment now who said that Bernie judgment now who said that Bernie Sanders said it about Helen, she's Not Sanders said it about Helen, she's not Sanders said it about Helen, she's not qualified.
So here are seven points and I qualified. So here are seven points and I qualified. So here are seven points and I walked down, which I think are important, walked down, which I think are important, walked down, which I think are important and they talked about Hillary and her and they talked about Hillary and her and they talked about Hillary and her Incompetence, she's one of the worst incompetence.
She's one of the worst incompetence. She's one of the worst secretaries of state in the history of secretaries of state in the history of secretaries of state in the history of our country. Now she wants to be a - our country now, she wants to be a our country, now she wants to be a present look, I'll be honest, present, look, I'll be honest, present, look, I'll be honest.
She has no natural talent to be. She has no natural talent to be. She has no natural talent to be President. This is not a president. They - President. This is not a president. They - President. This is not a president. They talk about me. Actually, a lot of people talk about me, actually, a lot of people talk about me, actually a lot of people think I look extremely presidential, you think I look extremely presidential, you think I look extremely presidential, you want to know the thing, but - but do you want To know the thing, but - but do you want to know the thing, but - but do you really believe that Hillary is really believe that Hillary is really believe that Hillary is presidential, this is not presidential, presidential, this is not presidential, presidential, this is not presidential material material Material, her Libya invasion, the Libya invasion, her Libya invasion, the Libya invasion, her Libya invasion.
The Libya invasion was disgusting. I mean you know who has was disgusting. I mean you know who has was disgusting. I mean, you know who has the oil. Isis has the oil from Libya, we - the oil Isis has the oil from Libya. We - the oil Isis has the oil from Libya. We went in, we knocked the hell out of Libya, went in.
We knocked the hell out of Libya, went in. We knocked the hell out of Libya. We did all of the things with Qaddafi. We did all of the things with Qaddafi. We did all of the things with Qaddafi and although we did great, she ends up. And although we did great, she ends up. And although we did great, she ends up with Benghazi, remember the famous phone with Benghazi, remember the famous phone with Benghazi, remember the famous phone call at 3 o'clock in the morning.
She'll call at 3 o'clock in the morning. She'll call at 3 o'clock in the morning. She'll answer the call guess what she was answer the call guess what she was answer the call guess what she was sleeping. She was sleeping like a baby sleeping. She was sleeping like a baby sleeping. She was sleeping like a baby.
Don't wake me up. Of course, she took the - don't wake me up, of course, she took the - don't wake me up. Of course, she took the calls from her slimy friends, but she calls from her slimy friends, but she calls from her slimy friends. But she didn't take 5 to 600 calls, they were - didn't take 5 to 600 calls.
They were - didn't take 5 to 600 calls, they were calling and calling and she was sleeping calling and calling and she was sleeping calling and calling and she was sleeping that she did that phony commercial that she did that phony commercial that she did that phony commercial. Remember that that phony commercial, if remember that that phony commercial, if remember that that phony commercial, if the phone rings at 3 o'clock in the - the phone rings at 3 o'clock in the the phone rings at 3 o'clock in the morning.
Well, it did ring a lot of times morning. Well, it did ring a lot of times morning. Well, it did ring a lot of times and she was sleeping, maybe it's no and she was sleeping, maybe it's no and she was sleeping, maybe it's no energy low-energy, right? She needed her energy low-energy right? She needed her energy low-energy right.
She needed her sleep. She needed her sleep so her Libya sleep, she needed her sleep, so her Libya sleep, she needed her sleep. So her Libya invasion decisions on Syria, Iraq and invasion decisions on Syria, Iraq and invasion decisions on Syria, Iraq and Iran have made the Middle East more. Iran have made the Middle East more.
Iran have made the Middle East more dangerous than ever, ever before and you dangerous than ever, ever before and you dangerous than ever, ever before and you know that she went to sleep when our know that she went to sleep. When our know that she went to sleep when our ambassador was murdered and we talked ambassador was murdered and we talked ambassador was murdered and we talked about that.
But she went to sleep she about that, but she went to sleep she about that. But she went to sleep, she wants the ship, all of our jobs overseas wants the ship. All of our jobs overseas wants the ship. All of our jobs overseas. Hillary Clinton wants to make trade. Hillary Clinton wants to make trade. Hillary Clinton wants to make trade agreements that will take care of the agreements that will take care of the agreements that will take care of the rest of her jobs that her husband didn't rest of her jobs, that her husband didn't rest of her jobs, that her Husband didn't take care of with NAFTA, we're not gonna take care of with NAFTA. We're not gonna take care of with NAFTA. We're not gonna let it happen.
Folks, we're gonna bring, let it happen, folks we're gonna bring, let it happen. Folks. We're gonna bring our jobs back, our jobs back, our jobs back a big thing and a big thing for a big thing and a big thing for a big thing and a big thing for Sacramento, another point I said it Sacramento, another point, I said it Sacramento, another point I said it before, she wants to abolish the Second before she wants to abolish the Second before she wants to abolish the Second Amendment, never ever, ever going to Amendment, never ever, ever going to Amendment, never ever, ever going to happen and she does.
And believe me happen and she does and believe me happen and she does, and believe me, she'll say, I don't want to about you. She'll say I don't want to about you. She'll say I don't want to about. You look at what she wants to do. She wants look at what she wants to do. She wants look at what she wants to do.
She wants to abolish the Second Amendment just to abolish the Second Amendment just to abolish the Second Amendment, just believe it, believe it, believe it, she wants totally open borders. She wants - she wants totally open borders, she wants, she wants totally open borders, she wants a 500 % increase in Syrian refugees, now a 500 % increase in Syrian refugees, now a 500 % increase in Syrian refugees.
Now remember this folks, folks, we have no - remember this folks, folks, we have no - remember this folks, folks, we have no idea who the hell these people are and idea who the hell these people are and idea who the hell these people are. And we all have big hearts and let's build - we all have big hearts and let's build - we all have big hearts and let's build some safe zones in Syria.
Let's get the - some safe zones in Syria. Let's get the - some safe zones in Syria. Let's get the Gulf states to pay for them because the Gulf states to pay for them because the Gulf states to pay for them because the Gulf states have a lot of money. We'll - Gulf states have a lot of money. We'll - Gulf states have a lot of money.
We'll get it done. We'll get the Gulf states to get it done. We'll get the Gulf states to get it done. We'll get the Gulf states to pay for them. I don't want to pay for pay for them. I don't want to pay for pay for them. I don't want to pay for them. We don't have any money and then of them we don't have any money and then of them we don't have any money.
And then of course you talk about bad judgment, go course, you talk about bad judgment, go course, you talk about bad judgment, go ahead. Thank you. So you talk - you talk about bad judgment, so you talk - you talk about bad judgment. So you talk - you talk about bad judgment, she broke federal law by putting her, she broke federal law by putting her, she broke federal law by putting her emails on a secret private server that emails on a secret private server that emails on a secret private server That foreign countries could easily get to foreign countries, could easily get to foreign countries, could easily get to and hack.
I mean folks, if anybody else and hack, I mean folks if anybody else and hack, I mean folks if anybody else, but her did this, they'd be in jail. Two, but her did this, they'd be in jail. Two, but her did this, they'd be in jail two years already, years already, years already. I mean honestly she should not be - I mean, honestly, she should not be - I mean, honestly, she should not be allowed to run.
It's a disgrace allowed to run. It's a disgrace allowed to run. It's a disgrace, it's a disgrace to the laws of our - it's a disgrace to the laws of our - it's a disgrace to the laws of our country. She should not be allowed to run country. She should not be allowed to run country, she should not be allowed to run.
With that being said, I wan na beat her. With that being said, I wan na beat her. With that being said, I wan na beat her, but she should not be allowed to run so, but she should not be allowed to run so, but she should not be allowed to run. So look, we are going to make our country. So look, we are going to make our country.
So look, we are going to make our country so strong again. We have to - we have no strong again we have to - we have no strong again we have to - we have no choice. We have to - we're gonna bring back choice, we have to - we're gonna bring back choice. We have to - we're gonna bring back our job. So important.
Our jobs are a - our job so important. Our jobs are a - our job so important. Our jobs are a disaster. We're gonna bring back our jobs disaster, we're gonna bring back our jobs disaster. We're gonna bring back our jobs and we're gonna bring them back fast. So - and we're gonna bring them back fast. So and we're gonna bring them back fast.
So what happened, you know, I won all those. What happened, you know, I won all those. What happened, you know, I won all those states and then they said I won't say states and then they said I won't say states. And then they said, I won't say who, because you know what once you win, who - because you know what once you win, who - because you know what once you win, you don't have to talk about him.
But a, you don't have to talk about him. But a, you don't have to talk about him, but a couple of guys, one in particular said couple of guys, one in particular said couple of guys, one in particular said Indiana, that's gonna be the firewall Indiana, that's gonna be the firewall Indiana, that's gon Na be the firewall Indiana well I had Bobby Knight.
So once Indiana well I had Bobby Knight. So once Indiana well I had Bobby Knight, so once that Bobby Knight it was alright Bobby that Bobby Knight, it was alright Bobby that Bobby Knight, it was alright. Bobby Knight boy, what a coach nine hundred Knight boy, what a coach nine hundred Knight boy, what a coach nine hundred games.
He won nine hundred three games. He won nine hundred three games. He won nine hundred, three championships last undefeated season. He championships last undefeated season. He championships last undefeated season, he called me up probably five months before called me, up probably five months before called me, up probably five months before I was going to run Bobby Knight, great.
I was going to run Bobby Knight, great. I was going to run Bobby Knight, great coach, great guy, tough guy, is he too? Coach? Great guy, tough guy, is he too coach? Great guy, tough guy, is he too tough? Do you think he's too tough now? We tough. Do you think he's too tough now? We tough, do you think he's too tough now we need toughness and he said, you know, mr.
need toughness and he said, you know, mr. need toughness and he said, you know, mr. Trump, I don't know you, but you're the Trump, I don't know you, but you're - The Trump, I don't know you, but you're the kind of guy I want to see run for kind of guy I want to see run for kind of guy I want to see run for president this before I decided to do it president this before I decided To do it president this before I decided to do it, it's a big decision.
You know it's not - it's a big decision. You know, it's not - it's a big decision. You know, it's not easy. Believe me, it's a big decision. I easy, believe me, it's a big decision. I easy believe me, it's a big decision. I have to deal with that scum back there have to deal with that scum back there have to deal with that scum back there, that right.
All the bad stuff believe me that right, all the bad stuff believe me that right. All the bad stuff believe me, they write bad stuff, they write really they write bad stuff, they write really they write bad stuff, they write really bad stuff, not all of them. Some are good bad stuff, not all of them. Some are good bad stuff, not all of them, some are good, but there are so many of them are such, but there are so many of them are such, but there are so many of them are such bad people, they're bad human beings and bad people.
They're bad human beings and bad people. They're bad human beings and they're liars, okay? They're liars, but they're liars, okay? They're liars, but they're liars, okay? They're liars. But Bobby Knight calls me up before I'm Bobby Knight calls me up before I'm Bobby. Knight calls me up before I'm gonna run, he said you should run, I said gonna run, he said you should run.
I said gonna run, he said you should run. I said coach, give me a number. If I do, I'm gonna coach, give me a number if I do, I'm gonna coach, give me a number. If I do, I'm gonna call you and I sort of put it in the call you and I sort of put it in the call. You and I sort of put it in the bottom of my desk, I had a pile of papers bottom of my desk.
I had a pile of papers bottom of my desk. I had a pile of papers a mile high, a mile high, a mile high and a friend came in and he goes to - we and a friend came in and he goes to - we and a friend came in and he goes to - we won New York. We won Pennsylvania, we won, won New York, we won Pennsylvania, we won, won New York, we won Pennsylvania, we won Connecticut, we want everything and then Connecticut, we want everything.
And then Connecticut, we want everything and then a friend came in and he said Donald if a friend came in and he said Donald if a friend came in and he said Donald, if you could ever get Bobby Knight, I said I - you could ever get Bobby Knight, I said I - you could ever get Bobby Knight, I said I think I can.
This is like a year later, think I can. This is like a year later. Think I can. This is like a year later and I said to him, Bobby Knight called me and I said to him, Bobby Knight called me and I said to him, Bobby Knight called me like a year ago and he said I should run like a year ago. And he said I should run like a year ago and he said I should run.
Let me see if I can find I lift up this. Let me see if I can find I lift up this. Let me see if I can find I lift up this pile of papers and there's his number pile of papers and there's his number pile of papers and there's his number like sitting there that's better than like sitting there that's better than like sitting there.
That's better than having an iPhone, right? Is that - that's having an iPhone, right? Is that - that's having an iPhone, right? Is that? That's the old-fashioned way. And I said coach the old-fashioned way and I said coach the old-fashioned way. And I said coach, coach, how we doing. It's Donald Trump, he coach how we doing, it's Donald Trump, he coach how we doing.
It's Donald Trump. He said, I've been waiting for you to call said, I've been waiting for you to call said I've been waiting for you to call and that was a week before I went to and that was a week before I went to and that was a week before. I went to Indiana and man was he good, he was great. Indiana and man was he good.
He was great. Indiana and man was he good. He was great. And we just - we won in a landslide. But we - and we just - we won in a landslide. But we - and we just - we won in a landslide, but we won New York, we won Pennsylvania, we went won New York, we won Pennsylvania, we went won New York, we won Pennsylvania, we went Connecticut, we won Rhode Island in Connecticut.
We won Rhode Island in Connecticut. We won Rhode Island in Delaware, Maryland and then we won there, Delaware, Maryland and then we won there, Delaware, Maryland. And then we won. There were the last ones when we - I'll tell you were the last ones when we - I'll tell you were the last ones. When we - I'll tell you a special place for me, a special place for me, a special place for me was New Hampshire because in New was New Hampshire because in New was New Hampshire because in New Hampshire, I got to know the people.
Hampshire, I got to know the people, Hampshire, I got to know the people really well. That was my first victory. I really - well, that was my first victory. I really - well, that was my first victory. I wasn't supposed to win New Hampshire. Jeb wasn't supposed to win New Hampshire. Jeb wasn't supposed to win New Hampshire.
Jeb Bush was supposed to win. New Hampshire Bush was supposed to win. New Hampshire Bush was supposed to win New Hampshire, but he was suppose so to his territory. But he was suppose so to his territory, but he was suppose so to his territory he was supposed to with. And I got to - he was supposed to with and I got to - he was supposed to with and I got to know the people and I campaigned that I. Know the people and I campaigned that I know the people and I campaigned that I made speeches, but I really sat down with made speeches.
But I really sat down with made speeches. But I really sat down with people and people of New Hampshire and I people and people of New Hampshire and I people and people of New Hampshire. And I said what's the problem up here because said what's the problem up here because said what's the problem up here because they were, you know, they got some, they were, you know, they got some, they were, you know, they got some problems, problems, problems.
They said our problem is heroin, I said they said our problem is heroin, I said they said our problem is heroin, I said heroin, what are you talking about? He heroin, what are you talking about? He heroin, what are you talking about? He said our problems heroin, now you look at said our problems heroin, now you look at said our problems heroin, now you look at the rivers and the trees of those, the rivers and the trees of those, the rivers and the trees of those beautiful roads.
And it doesn't seem they beautiful roads and it doesn't seem they beautiful roads and it doesn't seem they have a tremendous heroin problem. You have a tremendous heroin problem. You have a tremendous heroin problem you have and everybody has and it comes have and everybody has and it comes have and everybody has and it comes across the border.
That's why that wall across the border. That's why that wall across the border. That's why that wall is going to get built and that wall is, is going to get built and that wall is, is going to get built and that wall is going to be so powerful. It's going to be going to be so powerful. It's going to be going to be so powerful.
It's going to be so powerful and don't get yourself the so powerful and don't get yourself the so powerful and don't get yourself the world. You know ask Israel, do walls work world, you know ask Israel, do walls work world, you know ask Israel, do walls work? They work, just ask Israel have no choice.
They work just ask Israel have no choice. They work just ask Israel have no choice, have no choice folks, we have no choice. You know when I folks we have no choice. You know when I folks we have no choice. You know, when I was in the debates, did I do a good job, was in the debates, did I do a good job, was in the debates, did I do a good job in the debates?
You know, I think so I - in the debates, you know, I think so I - in the debates, you know, I think so I didn't know, I never debated, didn't know I never debated, didn't know. I never debated professionally. All of a sudden, I'm professionally all of a sudden, I'm professionally all of a sudden I'm standing up there.
Remember there were 17 standing up there. Remember there were 17 standing up there. Remember there were 17 people, 17 they had what they call the people 17. They had what they call the people 17, they had what they call the children's stage and the real stage and children's stage and the real stage and children's stage and the real stage and every single debate I was dead center, every single debate I was dead center Every single debate I was dead center, right, and it used to bother me when we right and it used to bother me when we right and it used to bother me when we had an even number.
I tell CNN and I had an even number. I tell CNN and I had an even number, I tell CNN and I would tell Fox, I'd say, listen, I wan na would tell Fox, I'd say, listen, I wan na would tell Fox, I'd say, listen, I wan na have odd numbers and they never knew have Odd numbers and they never knew have odd numbers and they never knew what I was done because when you have an - what I was done, because when you have an - what I was done, because when you have an odd number, you're in the center.
When you odd number, you're in the center, when you odd number, you're in the center when you have an even number, you got two guys in have an even number. You got two guys in have an even number. You got two guys in the center that's no good. So - but I was the center, that's no good. So - but I was the center that's no good.
So but I was in the center for every debate, every in the center for every debate, every in the center for every debate, every single poll, the online polls after the single poll, the online polls after the single poll, the online polls after the debates, every single Poll of every debates, every single poll of every debates, every single poll of every single debate they say I won.
I didn't single debate. They say I won. I didn't single debate they say I won. I didn't know. I never did this yet. Ted Cruz, who know I never did this yet, Ted Cruz, who know I never did this yet. Ted Cruz, who was like a professional debater yet all was like a professional debater, yet all was like a professional debater.
Yet all these people I looked so forward to these people, I looked so forward to these people. I looked so forward to debating crooked, Hillary oh, you know, debating, crooked, Hillary oh, you know, debating, crooked, Hillary? Oh, you know, Bernie wanted to debate me. I don't know, Bernie wanted to debate me, I don't know, Bernie wanted to debate me.
I don't know if he did or not. He didn't - he wasn't if he did or not, he didn't. He wasn't if he did or not, he didn't. He wasn't trying too hard. I'll tell you, believe me trying too hard, I'll tell you, believe me trying too hard. I'll tell you, believe me behind the scenes, he wasn't trying hard behind the scenes.
He wasn't trying hard behind the scenes. He wasn't trying hard to the media. He was all - I want to debate to the media. He was all - I want to debate to the media. He was all - I want to debate him behind the scenes. I'm not sure he him behind the scenes. I'm not sure he him behind the scenes. I'm not sure he wanted it, but Bernie, in all fairness I wanted it.
But Bernie, in all fairness I wanted it, but Bernie, in all fairness I said, put up money to the networks, put up, said, put up money to the networks, put up, said, put up money to the networks, put up money for women's health issues in this money. For women's health issues in this money for women's health issues in this case and they - they're very cheap you case and they - they're very cheap you case and they - they're very cheap.
You know, they want to make a lot of money, know they want to make a lot of money, know they want to make a lot of money, but they're not. So they're not so fast, but they're not. So they're not so fast, but they're not. So they're not so fast with giving it away, but I would have with giving it away, but I would have with giving it away, but I would have liked it, but then I said and somebody liked it, but then I said and somebody liked it.
But then I said and somebody told me they said, look, the system is told me they said, look, the system is told me, they said, look, the system is rigged, the guy is working hard, but his rigged, the guy is working hard. But his rigged, the guy is working hard, but his system is rigged, he can't win you system is rigged, he can't win you system is rigged, he can't win.
You shouldn't be debating the guy that comes, shouldn't be debating the guy that comes, shouldn't be debating the guy that comes in. Number two, does that make sense, yeah, in number two, does that make sense? Yeah, in number two, does that make sense? Yeah. And the network's weren't coming through and the network's weren't coming through and the network's weren't coming through, but it would be a good spectacle we got, but it would be a good spectacle we got, but it would be a good spectacle we got go of Bernie and Then we knock off go of Bernie and then we knock off go of Bernie and then we knock off Hillary.
I don't know. The problem is you Hillary, I don't know. The problem is you Hillary, I don't know. The problem is you can't win as systems all rigged up. It's can't win as systems all rigged up. It's can't win as systems all rigged up. It's all rigged up for Hillary. So let's see all rigged up for Hillary.
So let's see all rigged up for Hillary. So let's see what happens, but I look so forward to what happens. But I look so forward to what happens. But I look so forward to the bill webinar. Hell, I have to debate, I the bill webinar. Hell, I have to debate, I the bill webinar. Hell, I have to debate, I don't care, but I look so forward to don't care, but I look so forward to don't care, but I look so forward to those debates.
So here's what we're going, those debates. So here's what we're going, those debates. So here's what we're going to do. We have a country that doesn't win to do. We have a country that doesn't win to do. We have a country that doesn't win anymore, right? We know that we have a go anymore, right? We know that we have a go anymore, right?
We know that we have a go always the last time, always the last time, always the last time seriously think about it. When was the seriously think about it, when was the seriously think about it? When was the last time we had a victory in this last time we had a victory in this last time we had a victory in this country.
We don't have victories anymore country. We don't have victories anymore country. We don't have victories anymore. Did you see our GDP, it's like almost did you see our GDP, it's like almost did you see our GDP, it's like almost zero if that happened in China that have zero. If that happened in China that have zero.
If that happened in China that have a revolution, it's, you know, they get down a revolution. It's, you know, they get down a revolution. It's - you know, they get down to 7 %, 8 % and they start devaluing their to 7 %, 8 % and they start devaluing their to 7 %, 8 % and they start devaluing their currency again, which kills us because currency again, which kills us because currency Again, which kills us because they take our jobs and they kill our - they take our jobs and they kill our - they take our jobs and they kill our companies when they do that and they're companies when they do that and they're companies when they do that and They're not supposed to do that and they're not not supposed to do that and they're not not supposed to do that and they're not supposed to be building fortresses in supposed to be building fortresses in supposed to be building fortresses in the South China Sea.
They have no respect the South China Sea, they have no respect. The South China Sea, they have no respect for our country. They have no respect for - for our country. They have no respect for - for our country. They have no respect for our president. They think he's a total - our president, they think he's a total.
Our president, they think he's a total lightweight and now he's going to be lightweight and now he's going to be lightweight and now he's going to be campaigning and you know what he campaigning and you know what he campaigning and you know what he shouldn't campaign. He should go out and shouldn't campaign, he should go out and shouldn't campaign.
He should go out and do the job that he's supposed to be do the job that he's supposed to be do the job that he's supposed to be doing that campaigning. So we don't win doing that campaigning so we don't win doing that campaigning. So we don't win anymore anymore anymore. We don't win with jobs. We don't win with.
We don't win with jobs. We don't win with. We don't win with jobs. We don't win with the economy, we don't win it all, but let the economy, we don't win it all, but let the economy, we don't win it all. But let me tell you folks and I mean this so me tell you folks and I mean this so me tell you folks and I mean this so sincerely we are gonna win like we've sincerely we are gonna win like we've sincerely we are gon Na win like we've never won before telling you I'm telling never won before telling you I'm telling never won before telling you I'm telling you we're gonna bring our jobs back, you we're gonna bring our jobs back, you we're gonna bring our jobs back.
We're not going to let Carriere go, so we're not going to let Carriere go. So we're not going to let Carriere go so easily to Mexico when I can let Ford easily to Mexico. When I can let Ford easily to Mexico when I can let Ford build its plants in Mexico and other build its plants in Mexico and other build its plants in Mexico and other places.
We're gonna say folks, you're not places we're gonna say folks, you're not places we're gonna say folks, you're not gonna close plants in Michigan. I think gonna close plants in Michigan, I think gonna close plants in Michigan. I think I'm gonna win Michigan, you know, I'm gonna win Michigan, you know, I'm gonna win Michigan, you know Michigan's another one.
They're saying Michigan's another one. They're saying Michigan's another one. They're saying that a Democrat will win Michigan except that a Democrat will win Michigan except that a Democrat will win Michigan except for a problem. They just looked at a poll for a problem. They just looked at a poll for a problem.
They just looked at a poll. Trump is winning in Michigan because Trump is winning in Michigan because Trump is winning in Michigan because because for two years I'm talking about because for two years I'm talking about because for two years, I'm talking about how Michigan has been abused. That's why how Michigan has been abused, that's why how Michigan has been abused.
That's why I won in Indiana, I won Indiana because I won in Indiana, I won Indiana because I won in Indiana, I won Indiana because for years, for years I've been talking for years, for years, I've been talking for years, for years, I've been talking about what Is happening with Indiana and about what is happening with Indiana and about what is happening with Indiana and certain companies and then all of a certain companies and then all of a certain companies.
And then all of a sudden carrier says they're leaving and sudden carrier says they're leaving and sudden carrier says they're leaving and they fire all those people and those - they fire all those people and those - they fire all those people. And those people used to attend my speeches like people used to attend my speeches, like people used to attend my speeches like crazy.
So here's the story. We don't win crazy. So here's the story. We don't win crazy. So here's the story. We don't win anymore. We're gonna start winning, we're anymore - we're gonna start winning. We're anymore. We're gonna start winning. We're gonna win with our military. We're gonna gonna win with our military.
We're gonna gonna win with our military. We're gonna knock the hell out of Isis. Remember that knock the hell out of Isis. Remember that knock the hell out of Isis. Remember that we - we - we no choice, we have no choice. We're gonna no choice. We have no choice. We're gonna no choice. We have no choice.
We're gonna win it up. Boarders, we're gonna build the win it up. Boarders, we're gonna build the win it up. Boarders, we're gonna build the wall. It's going to be a great wall wall. It's going to be a great wall wall. It's going to be a great wall someday, maybe they'll call it Trump. So I someday maybe they'll call it Trump.
So I someday maybe they'll call it Trump. So I have to make it big and beautiful. I have to make it big and beautiful. I have to make it big and beautiful. I don't want a wall named after me, but we don't want a wall named after me, but we don't want a wall named after me. But we are going to build a great wall.
We are are going to build a great wall. We are - are going to build a great wall. We are going to let our incredible border going to let our incredible border going to let our incredible border agents who endorsed me sheriff joe agents who endorsed me sheriff joe agents who endorsed me sheriff joe arpaio endorsed me of Arizona.
These arpaio endorsed me of Arizona. These arpaio endorsed me of Arizona. These are the people that know what they're are. The people that know what they're are, the people that know what they're doing. So we are going to build a wall doing so we are going to build a wall doing so we are going to build a wall and we're going to keep the drugs out of and we're going to keep the drugs out of and we're going to keep The drugs out of here poisoning, our youth poisoning here, poisoning, our youth poisoning here, poisoning, our youth poisoning, everybody.
We're going to keep them out. Everybody. We're going to keep them out. Everybody. We're going to keep them out. And by the way, we're gonna have the wall and by the way, we're gonna have the wall. And by the way, we're gonna have the wall, but people are going to come pouring, but people are going to come pouring.
But people are going to come pouring into our country, but they're going to into our country, but they're going to into our country, but they're going to come in Legally. We want them to come come in Legally. We want them to come come in Legally. We want them to come. They're going to come in legal, we're - they're going to come in legal, we're - they're going to come in legal, we're gonna have great healthcare.
We're going gonna have great healthcare, we're going gonna have great healthcare. We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare. We're to repeal and replace Obamacare. We're to repeal and replace Obamacare. We're gonna have alternatives that are so much gonna have alternatives that are so much gonna have alternatives that are so much better and so much less we're gonna get better and so much less we're gonna get better and so much less.
We're gonna get rid of common core, we're gonna have rid of common core. We're gonna have rid of common core. We're gonna have local education, right? We are going to local education, right? We are going to local education, right? We are going to save our Second Amendment from assault, save our Second Amendment from assault, save our Second Amendment from assault from Hillary Clinton and all of these from Hillary Clinton and all of these from Hillary Clinton.
And all of these people that don't know what they're people that don't know what they're people that don't know what they're doing. You look at what's going on and doing, you look at what's going on and doing, you look at what's going on and you study what they're doing with your you study, what they're doing with your you study, what they're doing with your Second Amendment, Second Amendment, Second Amendment believe me, we are going to save it.
We believe me we are going to save it. We believe me we are going to save it. We are going to appoint great Supreme Court, are going to appoint great Supreme Court, are going to appoint great Supreme Court justices, one of the most important justices, one of the most important justices, one of the most important things because you know if they put in things Because you know if they put in things because you know if they put in - if somebody else gets in, you are - maybe if somebody else gets in, you are - maybe if somebody else gets in, you are maybe never going to see our country be great.
Never going to see our country be great, never going to see our country be great. Again, you're going to see such a - again, you're going to see such a - again, you're going to see such a difference. You're going to see such a difference. You're going to see such a difference. You're going to see such a difference and we're gonna make trade difference and we're gonna make trade difference and we're gonna make trade deals, the likes of which our country has deals, the likes of which our country has deals, the likes of which our Country has never made - we're gonna bring our jobs, never made, we're gonna bring our jobs, never made, we're gonna bring our jobs back back back.
We're gonna bring wealth back to our - we're gonna bring wealth back to our - we're gonna bring wealth back to our country. We don't have wealth right now country, we don't have wealth right now. Country we don't have wealth right now. We have poverty. We are like a - we have poverty, we are like a - we have poverty, we are like a third-world nation.
You look at our third-world nation, you look at our third-world nation, you look at our airports, you look at our roads, our airports, you look at our roads, our airports, you look at our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, we're like a bridges, our tunnels, we're like a Bridges our tunnels, we're like a third-world nation.
You go over to the third-world nation, you go over to the third-world nation. You go over to the Middle East, you go over to China, you go Middle East, you go over to China, you go Middle East, you go over to China, you go over to Japan. You look at what they have over to Japan, you look at what they have over to Japan, you look at what they have and compare it to what we have not gonna and compare it to what we have not gonna and compare it to what We have not gonna happen anymore folks.
So here's the story happen anymore folks. So here's the story happen anymore folks. So here's the story. You elect me president and remember June, you elect me president and remember June, you elect me president and remember June 7 to go out and vote, but most 7 to go out and vote. But most 7 to go out and vote.
But most importantly, November you got ta go, but importantly November you got ta go, but importantly November you got ta go but get out there in June 7, that's our get out there in June 7, that's our get out there in June 7. That's our starter. That's our warmup starter, that's our warmup starter, that's our warmup.
We are going to start winning again. We - we are going to start winning again. We - we are going to start winning again. We are going to win it every element that are going to win it, every element that are going to win it. Every element that we have, we're going to win with our - we have - we're going to win with our - we have - we're going to win with our military, we're going to win on trade, military, we're going to win on trade, military, we're going to win on trade.
We're going to win with healthcare, we're - we're going to win with healthcare, we're - we're going to win with healthcare, we're gonna win with education, we're gonna win gonna win with education, we're gonna win gonna win with education. We're gonna win with every single element. We're gonna with every single element, we're gonna with every single element, we're gonna win at the border.
We're gonna win with win at the border. We're gonna win with win at the border. We're gonna win with the wall and Mexico will pay for that. The wall and Mexico will pay for that. The wall and Mexico will pay for that wall. We're gonna win it every single wall. We're gonna win it every single wall. We're gonna win it every single thing and my friends from Sacramento and thing and my friends from Sacramento and thing and my friends from Sacramento and I have a lot of them and there are a lot - I have a lot of them and there are a Lot I have a lot of them and there are a lot of them in the audience.
I hate to think of them in the audience. I hate to think of them in the audience. I hate to think, but they're gonna represent you well and - but they're gonna represent you well and - but they're gonna represent you well and they're gonna come and see me, they're gonna come and see me, they're gonna come and see me Representing you and they're gonna say representing you and they're gonna say representing you and they're gonna say mr.
president, we have to talk what we're mr. president, we have to talk what we're - mr. president, we have to talk what we're winning too much. We can't take it winning too much. We can't take it winning too much. We can't take it anymore anymore anymore. The people of Sacramento cannot take all the people of Sacramento cannot take all the people of Sacramento, cannot take all of these victories.
Mr. president. We of these victories, mr. president, we of these victories, mr. president, we don't want you to win so much. It's not - don't want you to win so much. It's not - don't want you to win so much. It's not fair to the rest of the world don't win fair to the rest of the world. Don't win fair to the rest of the world.
Don't win mr. president, I'm gonna say - I'm sorry, mr. president, I'm gonna say - I'm sorry, mr. president, I'm gonna say, I'm sorry, folks, we're gonna win, win, win. We're folks, we're gonna win, win, win. We're folks, we're gonna win, win, win. We're gonna make our country great again, we're gonna make our country great.
Again, we're gonna make our country great. Again. We're going to make our country great again going to make our country great again going to make our country great again, greater than ever before ladies and greater than ever before, ladies and greater than ever before. Ladies and gentlemen, America first America first gentlemen, America, first America first gentlemen, America first America first.
Thank you very much. I love you. Thank you very much. I love you. Thank you very much. I love you, Sacramento. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you you.
