Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Wilmington, OH|November 4, 2016
What a place. Have you been seeing what's happening with those polls? They're like rocket ships. They're like rocket ships. [Applause]
I tell you it's been great. I love Ohio. I love Ohio. [Applause]
I worked in Ohio, did well in Ohio, gave me confidence to go out with life. Right at the beginning I was in Ohio, so we love it. Thank you everyone for coming. In four days, we are going to win the great State of Ohio and we are going to win back the White House. New polls just out have us with a very substantially lead in Ohio, nationwide.
Many of the states, we're looking great in Florida, we're looking great in North Carolina, we are looking great in the state of Pennsylvania, we just left New Hampshire, we have a lead in New Hampshire. These very dishonest people back there, the media, they're getting a little worried. They're getting a little bit worried, this wasn't supposed to happen. This was not supposed to happen.
You can vote early in person or you can show up on November 8th. Who has voted? Whoa, not great. But you're saving it for November 8th I think, correct? You want to be traditional, right? Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing horrible ObamaCare. It's just been announced that the residents of Ohio are going to experience massive, massive problems with their ObamaCare, you know about that I guess, right? You know about it. It's a serious problem, it is a serious problem and you're going to have numbers, in the great State of Arizona it's gone up 116 percent, okay, 116 percent.
So you're going to have a lot of problems, we're going to work on it very hard, 88 counties in Ohio are losing at least three ObamaCare insurers a year, okay? So next year, you're going to have almost, almost nobody even to negotiate with by next year but it's not going to matter because if we win the election, you're not going to have ObamaCare to worry about. You're not going to have ObamaCare, nothing to worry about believe me. And we are going to have great healthcare at a much lower price and it's going to be something you're going to be very proud of. Right now, it's an international joke, ObamaCare, it's an international joke. [Applause]
Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, I know so many doctors, they've quit and generally speaking, deductibles are going through the roof, some higher than others, we have deductibles I've heard as high as $15,000 or $16,000. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on ObamaCare, making it even more expensive. I'm asking for your vote so we can replace ObamaCare and save healthcare for every family in Ohio, but more importantly because we don't want to think of ourselves, for every family in the United States. [Applause]
It's a big problem. It is a big problem. Real change also means restoring honesty to government, so we ought to start by getting rid of Hillary Clinton. The FBI now has multiple open criminal investigations going on Hillary Clinton, lots of bad things are happening, lots of really bad things are happening, but I'll tell you what, you're going to be amazed when it's all finished, when you look at how it's all fleshing out. The system is a beautiful system when it works, we have a rigged system so many times, you see this.
I mean, you have things going on that are incredible, that includes a discovery of another 650,000 emails and also a criminal investigation into her pay for play corruption at the State Department, amazing. Last night it was just confirmed that the 650,000 emails include brand new emails not previously seen by authorities, likely including classified information.
Hillary is now facing major problems with perjury. The FBI agents say their investigation is likely to yield perhaps an indictment. I love them. I love them. The reports also show that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying as hard as they can to protect their angel, Hillary, this is no angel. They want to protect their angel. Did we ever have a situation like this, seriously? [Applause]
First of all, forget about as of last Friday with the new 650,000 emails that was found, forget that. She should have been disqualified for running for president from the first batch of emails and from all of the crimes that have been committed. I mean, take a look at the first batch, why do we even have to go? Now, we're doing it, Oh
That's the department where as you know the attorney the general was on the airplane, now they say it was for 45 minutes talking about the grandchildren and talking about golf for 45 minutes. I don't think so. I think they were talking about a position, in other words, a continuation of a position. I think that's what they were talking about folks.
Hillary has engaged in a criminal massive enterprise and cover- ups like probably nobody ever before. Remember John Podesta said she has bad instincts. And as you know as I was getting off the plane, they were just announcing new WikiLeaks and I wanted to stay there but I didn't want to keep you waiting, I didn't want to keep you waiting. Let me run back into the plane and find out. I didn't want to go - oh, there were some beauties coming out and I'm saying, Do I listen for another" - you know
But think of it, John Podesta, her top person, said she has bad instincts. Who the hell wants a president where the person that knows her best said her instincts are bad. Now Bernie Sanders said she has bad judgment, but at least he was running against her, right? But the person working with - I tell you what, I would fire Podesta very quickly if I were Hillary, he should be fired. And honestly, shouldn't Huma be fired? Huma. I mean, can you imagine, Did you get rid of all the emails?" "Yes
And I said all the things I said and they all said, What a horrible thing to say." I turned out to be right and even some of these very dishonest people in the media said
So those people when they advertise the cloud, Never disappears." She said
She created an illegal email server to shield her criminal activity and corrupt pay for play and then she illegally destroyed 33,000 emails after - this the big key, after, that's the key word, after receiving a congressional subpoena, so after. So she gets the subpoena and she says get rid of it and that's fine. And yet, they put a four star general last week, James Cartwright, highly respectable, current four star general, they may put him in jail for up to five years for doing nothing by comparison. General Petraeus suffered horribly, reputation destroyed for doing nothing by comparison.
They took the kid who wanted some pictures of the submarine, that's an old submarine, they've got plenty of pictures, if the enemy wants them, they've got plenty of them. He wanted to take a couple of pictures, they put him in jail for a year. I saw his mother the other night on television. I tell you what folks, we've never been in a situation like this and if she's allowed to run for president then General Cartwright should put in jail for doing peanuts. And he said he did it - and he said he did it for - he said that he lied for national security purposes. Who knows? But he did nothing by comparison to what she's done.
If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis. She is likely to be under investigation for a long time concluding probably in a criminal trial. Hey look, we all want to go through a process and we want to make sure everyone is guilty properly, guilty properly, everything has to be perfect, but she did things where - and we have a trial, have to go with, but she's guilty. She's guilty. She took the emails and that's the least of what she did. She got rid of emails, that's the least of what she did.
If she ever got into the Oval Office, Hillary and her corrupt friends would rob this country blind. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we all are about to say, we all - are you ready? Isn't it amazing how this phrase has gone up? I didn't like it, I thought it was corny, I don't know where they really sort of a corny phrase I didn't like it.
When we win in November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp. I thought it was corny and then I went to one rally and another and they're all screaming, Drain the swamp" but Frank Sinatra didn't like My Way
At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. Ohio has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by crooked Hillary Clinton. America has lost - this is one of the hardest things to believe because it doesn't seem physically possible. Seventy thousand factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill- and Hillary-backed disaster. We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, it's true. It's the single greatest jobs theft, you take a look at what's happened not only in Ohio.
You look at upstate New York, you look at Pennsylvania, you look at North Carolina, you look at South Carolina, you look at what's going on, look at New England, boy they got hit. General Motors lay off 1,151 workers in Moraine and moved their jobs to Mexico, China, and various other countries. Faurecia laid off 356 workers in Troy, anybody from Troy? Good, do you still have your job? And moved their jobs to Mexico.
Delphi laid off 5,805, what's with Delphi? You know about that, right? Five thousand eight hundred and five workers in Dayton. Boy oh boy, that's a lot of jobs, and moved their jobs to Mexico. We have a one-way highway going into some of these countries especially Mexico. Everything goes in, I always say, they get the jobs, the plants, the money, we get the drugs, we get the unemployment, it's a one way street. Not going to happen anymore folks, it's not going to happen anymore. [Applause]
There have to be consequences. When that happens, there's going to be consequences. We're going to fight - oh, don't worry about it, we'll build the wall, it's going to be a great wall too. It's going to be a great wall. And every time I see a Delphi and every time I see these companies leaving, that wall gets a little bit higher, it's going up. It's going to be a great wall. We're going to fight for workers and we're going to fight so Delphi and these other companies don't leave us, and there's going to be consequences because the people got a raw deal and they deserve so much better. [Applause]
A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving Ohio and from leaving America and we'll stop the jobs, I'll tell you what, like you've never seen before, it will happen quickly. The theft of American prosperity will end. If a company wants to fire their workers, leave Ohio, move to another country, build their big beautiful factory, ship their products back into the United States, we will make them pay a 35 percent tax going through a very strong wall, it's going to be a very strong wall. [Applause]
And you know what's going to happen? They're not going to leave, not going to leave. Now, the politicians could do something about this. How long have we been talking about this, 15 years, right? It got really bad over the last five or six years, really bad. It's gotten to be catastrophic, catastrophic. But they know this. I mean some do and some don't, some are not exactly - I won't say it, some aren't too bright. Some aren't too bright. And some are getting tremendous amounts of money from donors and from people that want to see those companies leave, they have reasons for the companies to leave, including ownership interest in those companies.
The problem is, the politicians are working for those donors, they're not working for the American people, they're not working for all the people that got fired from what were good jobs. So what's going to happen is they want to leave and the ones who do leave, that's okay too because the country will make a fortune because that's going to be called a consequence, we can stop it dead. And as we see speak right now, you have leaders in your company going out right now as we're speaking, you have leaders going out trying to negotiate deals to leave Ohio and other places, go to Mexico, go to another countries.
But don't worry about it, because if I get elected, there'll be very little negotiation. A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers, I want free trade, I want fair trade. You know, everyone wants free trade, we keep calling it free trade. Well I want free trade too but I really want fair trade, fair for this country and for our workers. That's what it's going to be, we're going to have fair, fair trade. [Applause]
We will also immediately stop this job killing Trans-Pacific Partnership from happening, that's going to be, that's another NAFTA potentially. As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we're going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent. We will massively cut taxes for the middle class. We will also unleash American energy including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal. We're going to put our miners back to work, we're going to put our steel workers back to work. [Applause]
We will cancel billions of dollars of global warming payments to the United Nations. By the way, nobody even knows what happens to that money. I could tell you I have some pretty good ideas, but nobody even knows what happens and we will use that money to invest in America, that includes projects like improving Interstate 71 does anybody like that idea? You got to like it a lot otherwise, let's save the money. You know, we owe $20 trillion, okay? If you like the idea of improving the interstate?
I mean, it's not exactly - you're not thrilled by it, let's not do it then, let's save the money and replacing the Brent Spence Bridge in Cincinnati, you like that? Which is critical to the region, you like that one better. You know, we should do that. Before we do a project, have a big rally, how do you like doing the interstate? People go, ahhh" how do you like doing the bridge? Oh
We will also rebuild our inner cities. We will become a rich nation once again. You know, our inner cities are in terrible shape, the African-American community has been absolutely mistreated by the people running the inner cities for so many years, up to a hundred years, unbroken and we're going to fix and invest in our inner cities, we're going to bring our jobs back into the inner cities. The crime is unbelievable, it's staggering, the crime.
Thousands and thousands of shootings in Chicago just since the beginning of the year, we're going to fix our inner cities. Jobs back, good education, and safety. And I say to the African-American community, I say to the Hispanic community, and I've said it, What the hell do you have to lose? I mean
You give them the vote and then they'll say, So long folks
