Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Edison, NJ|October 15, 2016

This is a great honor for me. I've been - this is a great honor for me. I've been - this is a great honor for me. I've been all over the country today. We were in all over the country today. We were in all over the country today. We were in Maine and we were in New Hampshire where Maine and we were in New Hampshire where Maine and we were in New Hampshire, where we're doing amazingly well.
We're doing - we're doing amazingly well. We're doing - we're doing amazingly well. We're doing well everywhere poll just came out the well everywhere poll just came out. The well everywhere poll just came out the Rasmussen poll. We're two points up Rasmussen poll. We're two points up Rasmussen poll. We're two points up nationally.
We're gonna do well. And I nationally we're gonna do well and I nationally we're gonna do well and I want to thank you so much for that. Want to thank you so much for that. Want to thank you so much for that welcome. Let me begin by expressing my welcome. Let me begin by expressing my welcome. Let me begin by expressing my gratitude to Shelley wait, come here, come great guy, great guy.
He's a good friend. Great guy, great guy. He's a good friend, great guy, great guy. He's a good friend and a great guy. Thank you very much and a great guy. Thank you very much and a great guy. Thank you very much and your family is amazing. I want to and your family is amazing. I want to and your family is amazing.
I want to thank you for putting together this in. Thank you for putting together this in. Thank you for putting together this in credit. Guy. I want to credit guy, I want to credit guy. I want to Thank You people together this Thank You people together. This Thank You people together, this incredible big, big fan.
Let me start by incredible big, big fan. Let me start by incredible big, big fan. Let me start by stating right up front that if I'm stating right up front that if I'm stating right up front that if I'm elected president, the Indian and Hindu elected president, the Indian and Hindu elected president. The Indian and Hindu community will have a true friend.
In the community will have a true friend in the community, will have a true friend in the White House that I can guarantee you White House that I can guarantee you White House that I can guarantee you that I can tell you I'm involved in two that I can tell you I'm involved in two that I can tell you. I'm involved in two massive developments in India.
You massive developments in India, you massive developments in India, you probably know very successful, wonderful, probably know very successful, wonderful probably know very successful, wonderful, wonderful partners. Very beautiful and I wonderful partners, very beautiful and I wonderful partners, very beautiful.
And I must say I became involved because I must say I became involved because I must say I became involved because I have great confidence and I have great have great confidence. And I have great, have great confidence and I have great confidence in India, incredible people, confidence in India, incredible people, confidence in India, incredible people and an incredible country.
So thank you and an incredible country. So thank you and an incredible country. So thank you very much. I was there 19 months ago and very much I was there 19 months ago and very much I was there 19 months ago. And look forward to going back. Many, many, look forward to going back. Many, many look forward to going back many, many times, times times, generations of Indian and Hindu generations of Indian and Hindu generations of Indian and Hindu Americans have strengthened.
Our country Americans have strengthened our country. Americans have strengthened our country and strengthened it like few people and strengthened it like few people and strengthened it like few people could ever even believe your values of could ever even believe your values of could ever even believe your values of hard work, education and enterprise Have hard work, education and enterprise have hard work, education and enterprise, have truly enriched our nation and we will be truly enriched our nation and we will be truly enriched our nation.
And we will be celebrating a trump administration celebrating a trump administration, celebrating a trump administration together that I can tell you Indian together that I can tell you Indian together that I can tell you Indian Americans have the highest rate of Americans, have the highest rate of Americans have the highest rate of entrepreneurship and college graduation entrepreneurship and college graduation entrepreneurship and college graduation in our country, a trump administration in our country, a trump administration in our country, a trump administration.
That's pretty impressive. By the way you - that's pretty impressive by the way you - that's pretty impressive. By the way, you don't - you don't hear that often. I will don't - you don't hear that often. I will don't you don't hear that often. I will tell you a trump administration will tell you a trump administration will tell you a trump administration will massively lower taxes for our small, massively lower taxes for our small, massively lower taxes for our small businesses, eliminating job-killing businesses, eliminating job-killing businesses, eliminating job-killing regulations.
And we will repeal and regulations and we will repeal and regulations. And we will repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare, which is a replace job-killing Obamacare, which is a replace job-killing Obamacare, which is a disaster disaster disaster. But as we all know, we can't have. But as we all know, we can't have, but as we all know, we can't have prosperity without security and that is prosperity without security and that is prosperity without security.
And that is why we appreciate the great friend, India, why we appreciate the great friend, India, why we appreciate the great friend India has been to the United States in the - has been to the United States in the - has been to the United States in the fight Against radical Islamic terrorism fight against radical Islamic terrorism fight against radical Islamic terrorism word that our president as word that our president as word that our president as so where our president refuses to use.
So where our president refuses to use. So where our president refuses to use Hillary Clinton as I call her crooked, Hillary Clinton as I call her, crooked Hillary Clinton as I call her, crooked Hillary does not use that term. Hillary does not use that term. Hillary does not use that term. India's seen firsthand the brutality of India's seen firsthand, the brutality of India's seen firsthand, the brutality of terrorism and cross-border violence, terrorism and cross-border violence, terrorism and cross-border violence, including the attacks in mumbay and I including the attacks in mumbay and I including the attacks in mumbay.
And I mean, look, Mumbai is a place that I love mean, look, Mumbai is a place that I love mean, look, Mumbai is a place that I love. It's a place that I understand. So for it's a place that I understand. So for it's a place that I understand. So for all of the people in Mumbai, the attack all of the people in Mumbai, the attack all of the people in Mumbai, the attack on Indian Parliament, absolutely on Indian Parliament, absolutely.
On Indian Parliament, absolutely outrageous, outrageous, outrageous and terrible. We will defeat radical and terrible. We will defeat radical and terrible. We will defeat radical Islamic terrorism. When I'm president, we Islamic terrorism. When I'm president, we Islamic terrorism. When I'm president, we will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with India and sharing intelligence and India and sharing intelligence.
And India and sharing intelligence and keeping our people safe mutually this is keeping our people safe mutually. This is keeping our people safe mutually. This is so important in the age of Isis. The so important in the age of Isis, the so important in the age of Isis, the barbaric threat, Hillary Clinton is barbaric threat.
Hillary Clinton is barbaric threat. Hillary Clinton is unleashed on to the entire world. India unleashed on to the entire world, India unleashed on to the entire world. India is key and a key strategic ally. And we is key and a key strategic ally. And we is key and a key strategic ally. And we don't want to even talk about it because don't want to even talk about it because don't want to even talk about it because there's nothing like the relationship.
There's nothing like the relationship. There's nothing like the relationship that we will have. I look forward to that. We will have - I look forward to that. We will have - I look forward to deepening the diplomatic and military deepening the diplomatic and military deepening, the diplomatic and military cooperation.
That is the shared interest cooperation. That is the shared interest cooperation. That is the shared interest of both countries. India is the world's of both countries. India is the world's of both countries. India is the world's largest. It's the world's largest largest. It's the world's largest largest.
It's the world's largest democracy, an amazing statement and is a democracy. An amazing statement and is a democracy, an amazing statement and is a natural ally of the United States under natural ally of the United States under natural ally of the United States under a trump administration. We are going to a trump administration.
We are going to a trump administration, we are going to become even better, friends become even better, friends become even better friends. In fact, I'll take the word even out. In fact, I'll take the word even out. In fact, I'll take the word even out because we are going to be best friends because we are going to be best friends because we are going to be best friends.
There won't be any relationship more. There won't be any relationship more. There won't be any relationship more important to all, and I love when I see important to all. And I love when I see important to all. And I love when I see this over here because they're busting this over here because they're busting this over here because they're busting through the gates.
They love us. We love through the gates. They love us. We love through the gates. They love us. We love you a lot of love in this room is a lot you - a lot of love in this room is a lot you, a lot of love in this room is a lot of love. I look forward to working with of love. I look forward to working with of love.
I look forward to working with Prime Minister Modi who has been very Prime Minister Modi who has been very Prime Minister Modi who has been very energetic and reforming India's energetic and reforming India's energetic and reforming India's bureaucracy. Bureaucracy. Bureaucracy, great man. I applaud him for doing so and great man.
I applaud him for doing so and great man. I applaud him for doing so and I look forward to doing some serious. I look forward to doing some serious. I look forward to doing some serious bureaucratic trimming right here in the bureaucratic trimming right here in the bureaucratic trimming right here in the United States.
Believe me, we need it also. United States, believe me, we need it also. United States, believe me, we need it. Also. Americans have been asking for years, for Americans have been asking for years, for Americans have been asking for years, for decades to trim the waste and government decades to trim the waste and government decades to trim the waste and government, the politicians can't do it.
But I - the politicians can't do it, but I - the politicians can't do it, but I promise you this, I will do it the promise you this, I will do it the promise you this, I will do it. The wasting of taxpayer dollars will finally wasting of taxpayer dollars will finally wasting of taxpayer dollars will finally in the United States, come to an end in the United States, come to an end in the United States come to an end.
We're going to fix these bloated and we're going to fix these bloated and we're going to fix these bloated and corrupt bureaucracies. Hillary doesn't corrupt bureaucracies, Hillary doesn't corrupt bureaucracies. Hillary doesn't have the energy, have the energy, have the energy. She's right now resting.
She's resting, she's right now resting. She's resting, she's right now resting. She's resting, waiting for the debate on Wednesday, waiting for the debate on Wednesday, waiting for the debate on Wednesday night. Did everybody see the last debate? That was an easy one. That was very easy. That was an easy one that was very easy.
That was an easy one that was very easy. So your great prime minister has been a - so your great prime minister has been a - so your great prime minister has been a pro-growth leader for India. He pro-growth leader for India, he pro-growth leader for India, he simplified the tax code and cut taxes simplified the tax code and cut taxes simplified the tax code and cut taxes and their economy has grown 7 % a year and their economy has grown 7 % a Year and their economy has grown 7 % a year, excellent.
Our economy is practically not excellent. Our economy is practically not excellent. Our economy is practically not growing at all in the United States, just growing at all in the United States, just growing at all in the United States just about zero and with a very, very bad jobs, about zero and with a very, very bad jobs, about zero.
And with a very, very bad jobs report just as less Friday will take report just as less Friday will take report just as less Friday will take care of that. But when I'm elected, we're care of that. But when I'm elected, we're care of that. But when I'm elected, we're going to start growing again and growing, going to start growing again and growing, going to start growing again and growing very, very fast.
My reforms on taxes trade very, very fast. My reforms on taxes trade very, very fast. My reforms on taxes, trade regulation and energy will add at least regulation and energy will add at least regulation and energy will add at least 25 million new jobs in the next decade, 25 million new jobs in the next decade, 25 million new jobs in the next Decade we will make America the greatest place.
We will make America the greatest place. We will make America the greatest place in the world to invest, hire, grow and to in the world to invest, hire, grow and to in the world to invest, hire, grow and to create new jobs, new technologies and create new jobs, new technologies and create new jobs. New technologies and entire new industries.
First, we will cut entire new industries. First, we will cut entire new industries. First, we will cut taxes for all working and middle-class taxes for all working and middle-class taxes for all working and middle-class households. In America, we're going to go households in America, we're going to go households in America, we're going to go to seven and you know what we had - we had to seven and you know what we had - we had to seven and you know what we had - we Had seven brackets, we're going to bring it seven brackets.
We're going to bring it seven brackets. We're going to bring it down to three brackets with low-income down to three brackets with low-income down to three brackets with low-income Americans paying no income tax at all. Americans paying no income tax at all Americans, paying no income tax at all. There will be a massive tax, there will be a massive tax.
There will be a massive tax simplification. We waste over nine simplification. We waste over nine simplification. We waste over nine in dollars a year in tax code compliance in dollars a year in tax code compliance in dollars a year in tax code compliance that ends under a trump administration that ends under a trump administration that ends under a trump administration business.
Tax reform is at the center of business. Tax reform is at the center of business. Tax reform is at the center of our plan. We have the highest tax rates, our plan. We have the highest tax rates, our plan. We have the highest tax rates anywhere in the world, thirty five anywhere in the world, thirty five anywhere in the world, thirty five percent and we're going to bring that percent and we're going to bring that percent and we're going to bring that down to fifteen percent Which will make down to fifteen percent which will make down to fifteen percent which will make us one of the lowest tax countries in us, one of the lowest tax countries in us, one of the lowest tax countries in the world.
That's good you like that. The world that's good, you like that, the world that's good, you like that. Do you like that? That's good. We will. Do you like that? That's good. We will do you like that? That's good. We will also have the largest regulatory reform also have the largest regulatory reform also have the largest regulatory reform in American history every year over in American history.
Every year over in American history, every year over regulation courts our economy, two regulation courts our economy, two regulation courts our economy two trillion dollars a year and reduces trillion dollars a year and reduces trillion dollars a year and reduces household wealth by almost fifteen household wealth.
By almost fifteen household wealth by almost fifteen thousand dollars, I'm going to pause new thousand dollars. I'm going to pause new thousand dollars. I'm going to pause new regulations and as my department heads regulations and as my department heads regulations and as my department heads to identify every useless a wasteful to identify every useless a wasteful to identify every useless a wasteful job-killing regulation.
And they will be job-killing regulation. And they will be job-killing regulation and they will be eliminated. It's a big problem in this eliminated. It's a big problem in this eliminated. It's a big problem in this country, some of the very finest country, some of the very finest country, some of the very finest regulations will go and they will go, regulations will go and they will go, regulations will go and they will go fast.
The elimination of our job-killing fast, the elimination of our job-killing fast, the elimination of our job-killing restrictions on American energy will end restrictions on American energy will end restrictions on American energy will end. My pro energy reforms will add at least my pro energy reforms will add.
At least my pro energy reforms will add at least a half a million new jobs per year, lower, a half a million new jobs per year, lower, a half a million new jobs per year, lower the prices of your energy bills for all the prices of your Energy bills for all the prices of your energy bills for all American households.
Finally, we must fix American households. Finally, we must fix American households. Finally, we must fix our terrible trade deals and protect our terrible trade deals and protect our terrible trade deals and protect America's intellectual property, America's intellectual property, America's intellectual property, something you know a lot about America's something you know a lot about America's something you know a Lot about America's annual trade deficit with the world is annual trade deficit with the world is annual trade deficit with the world is now nearly eight hundred billion dollars, now nearly eight hundred billion dollars, now nearly eight hundred billion dollars a year.
China is stealing our a year, China is stealing our a year. China is stealing our intellectual property, intellectual property, intellectual property. Guess how much intellectual property, a guess, how much intellectual property, a guess how much intellectual property a US government official says China stole US government official says China stole US government official says China stole last year.
The number is approximately last year. The number is approximately last year the number is approximately three hundred and sixty billion dollars, three hundred and sixty billion dollars, three hundred and sixty billion dollars. In any event, we are going to have strong in any event, we are going to have strong in any event, we are going to have strong borders, we are going to have strong borders, we are going to have strong borders, we are going to have strong walls.
We're going to have a wall walls, we're going to have a wall walls, we're going to have a wall, we're going to stop drugs from pouring. We're going to stop drugs from pouring. We're going to stop drugs from pouring into our country. The wall will be built into our country, the wall will be built into our country.
The wall will be built, Mexico will pay for the wall. We haven't. Mexico will pay for the wall. We haven't. Mexico will pay for the wall. We haven't quite explained it to them yet. They quite explained it to them yet. They quite explained it to them yet they don't quite know it yet. We're gonna end, don't quite know it yet.
We're gonna end, don't quite know it yet. We're gonna end up having great relationships with China up, having great relationships with China up, having great relationships with China and Mexico. But we are gonna have a great and Mexico but we are gonna have a great and Mexico but we are gonna have a great relationship with India.
Our leaders do relationship with India, our leaders do relationship with India. Our leaders do nothing about all of the problems caused, nothing about all of the problems caused, nothing about all of the problems caused and all of the crime they don't do and all of the crime they don't do and all of the crime, they don't do anything About it anything about it, anything about it, we are going to have a great society.
We are going to have a great society. We are going to have a great society. Again, we're going to have honesty in - again, we're going to have honesty in again, we're going to have honesty in government. We are going to save our government. We are going to save our government. We are going to save our Second Amendment.
We are going to do so, Second Amendment we are going to do so. Second Amendment, we are going to do so many things for education including the many things for education, including the many things for education including the elimination of common core. So we can elimination of common core so we can elimination of common core so we can bring our education local.
We have to do bring our education local. We have to do bring our education local, we have to do it locally. When it comes to trade. We're it locally when it comes to trade, we're it locally. When it comes to trade, we're going to negotiate and renegotiate trade, going to negotiate and renegotiate trade, going to negotiate and renegotiate trade deals.
We're going to have new trade deals. We're going to have new trade deals. We're going to have new trade deals, we believe in freedom and free deals. We believe in freedom and free deals. We believe in freedom and free trade, we believe. But our trade deals for trade, we believe, but our trade deals for trade, we believe, but our trade deals for our country are not good.
They're not - our country are not good. They're not - our country are not good. They're not fair. They're not appropriate. We're going fair. They're not appropriate. We're going fair. They're not appropriate. We're going to change that. So we're going to have to change that. So we're going to have to change that.
So we're going to have great trade deals, but we will be able to great trade deals. But we will be able to great trade deals, but we will be able to trade and do tremendous business. I can trade and do tremendous business. I can trade and do tremendous business. I can tell you with India, tell you with India, tell you with India.
So just in summing up, we are going to - so just in summing up, we are going to - so just in summing up, we are going to have a phenomenal future together. America is going to be a country that America is going to be a country that America is going to be a country that people will once again respect we will - people will once again respect we will - people will once again respect we will be wealthy again.
We will be strong again be wealthy again we will be strong again be wealthy again we will be strong again we will be powerful again and hopefully we will be powerful again and hopefully we will be powerful again and hopefully not have to use our power. But we will be not have to use our power, but we will be not have to use our power, but we will be powerful and we will be smart our powerful and we will be smart, our powerful and we will be smart.
Our military is depleted horribly. Our military is depleted horribly. Our military is depleted horribly. Our military will be fixed. We have great military will be fixed, we have great military will be fixed. We have great, great people. Our military will be again great people. Our military will be again great people.
Our military will be again will be what America's military should will be, what America's military should will be what America's military should be be be America's military has to be strong and America's military has to be strong and America's military has to be strong and America has To lead through strength, America has to lead through strength, America has to lead through strength, lead through strength.
We will produce lead through strength. We will produce lead through strength. We will produce jobs, we will bring back our great jobs. We will bring back our great jobs. We will bring back our great companies. They won't be leaving any more companies. They won't be leaving any more companies. They won't be leaving any more and lots of good things will happen.
You and lots of good things will happen. You and lots of good things will happen. You know, when I started this campaign, it was know when I started this campaign, it was know when I started this campaign, it was very simple. I talked about strong, very simple, I talked about strong, very simple. I talked about strong borders, I talked about good trade.
I borders, I talked about good trade. I borders, I talked about good trade. I talked about strong military, but I had a talked about strong military, but I had a talked about strong military, but I had a theme and the theme was very simple and theme and the theme was very simple and theme and the theme was very simple.
And the theme has resonated all over the - the theme has resonated all over the - the theme has resonated all over the world and the theme is just like on world and the theme is just like on world and the theme is just like on those hats make America great again and those hats make America great again and those hats make America great again and that's what we're going to do.
I want to - that's what we're going to do. I want to - that's what we're going to do. I want to thank you all for being here. This is a thank you all for being here. This is a thank you all for being here. This is a great honor to have this kind of a crowd great honor to have this kind of a crowd great honor to have this kind of a crowd.
Thank you very much and thank you sir. Thank you very much and thank you sir. Thank you very much and thank you sir. Great you you. We love the Hindus. We love India. Thank. We love the Hindus. We love India. Thank. We love the Hindus. We love India. Thank you. Thank you everybody you thank you everybody you.