Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Columbus, OH|August 1, 2016
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I have to tell you that the fire marshall -- they turned away thousands of people, they turned away -- thank you very much. They turned away thousands of people -- look at the size of this place. They turned away thousands, they were giving orders that no more than a thousand people.
Now, Hillary Clinton, I have a picture here which is pretty sad. [Laughter]
She had, she had, last week or a couple of days ago, look at -- totally empty. [Laughter]
But is the mayor a Democrat? Is there a Democrat over here? That's what I heard. He ought to be ashamed of himself. They turned away thousands of people, but that makes it better for you, right? [Applause]
It's very sad. You know. It shouldn't be so much about politics, folks. We're gonna do a town hall so we're gonna be talking about questions and this and that. I'll say a few words. But outside, I met two gentlemen from Piketon who really were misrepresented very badly, very badly, by President Obama and they're gonna come up. Come up fellas. I just met them. [Applause]
Because we're gonna bring back our jobs, we're not gonna let our jobs go to Mexico and all these other countries, we're gonna renegotiate the horrible NAFTA deal which is maybe the worst deal every made from an economic development standpoint -- I'm not just talking in this country I'm talking about in the world -- we're gonna bring back our jobs. And we're also gonna stop radical Islamic terrorism. We're not letting the people come in. We're not letting them come in. And they can play all the games they want.
But we're not -- you know Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase from Syria coming into this country over Obama. And you'd actually say what is she doing? So here's a letter from President Obama to these two gentlemen that have worked so hard and are having a hard time, and maybe in just a little while you could just say exactly what's going on.
Thank you. [Applause]
My name is Jeff Albrecht. I'm from Portsmouth, Ohio. We have a plant just north of Portsmouth in Piketon that enriched uranium and for seven years Kevin and I have been going to Washington and talking to politicians about saving the plant that enriched uranium. There were hundreds of jobs there and it was the only plant in the United States that enriched uranium. I also have the hotel, the Holiday Inn in Portsmouth, and then- Senator Barack Obama,who was running for president, came and stayed at my hotel. And he said, I'm gonna get up at 5 o'clock in the morning and I need breakfast but you're not open yet." So I says
So I fixed him six eggs, six strips of bacon, a big pile of home fried potatoes, four whole wheat toast and a big bowl of oatmeal and I asked him, How do you eat all that?" "Only meal I'll get today." So he had his picture taken with me
