Donald Trump|Interview: Rick and Bubba Interview Donald Trump on WZZK|FM
It is 35 minutes past the hour. You have the Rick and Bubba Show. As promoted, and we're thankful to all who made this happen, the 45th president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, is standing by. President, welcome to the Rick and Bubba Show.
Well, thank you, both, very much. I got to meet Bubba the other night. We had, I guess, a record-setting rally. Couldn't have been one that was more crowded than that.
It was a great evening.
Mr. President, it was an exciting and electric night. It was a pleasure to meet you.
Well, great meeting you. And Bubba, that was great to meet you.
Well, he worked the crowd into a frenzy. We've watched the video, I mean, the place was in a frenzy. And I told you that if things don't go the way that you're hoping they'll go concerning the Senate race, you can blame that on Bubba.
Well, I'm going to, I expect to. Luther, who's a really great guy, he's a fantastic guy. And he was sort of unfairly labeled. They have him as best friends with Mitch McConnell.
He doesn't even know Mitch. I mean, he met him a few months ago. When he came into Washington, he got to know him a little bit. But he virtually doesn't even know him, but they tried to put that tag away.
Politics is a dirty business. You guys might have figured that out by now.
Oh my goodness.
We've heard that.
And Luther Strange is a -- is going to be a great senator. He already has, and he already has helped me. You know the story I told is 100% true. He wanted to give me his support. And I just didn't forget it.
It was a different kind of a support. It was without -- it's just a support that was a very beautiful thing to watch happening, the way it formed, and he really was helpful. And he's helpful right now, actually. So we hope we can keep him in the Senate. He's -- he loves Alabama. I tell you what, he loves the state and he loves the country and he's a solid guy. And very important, fellas, to me very importantly, is that he will absolutely win against the Democrat.
Whereas Ray's going to have a hard time, you know that. It's going to be a hard race. You've seen those races go very bad over the years, whether it's Harry Reid's race or whether it's a couple of others that I won't even mention, that were tough and they were not victories, and Luther wins automatically. If Luther wins tomorrow, the Democrats will hardly fight. If Ray wins, they've got to pour in $30 million like they did in Atlanta.
Yes.
I had to bring her -- we brought her over the line. We did a great job. But Karen, we had a -- we had a very, very, very tough race, taking -- fighting for Tom Price's seat in the -- in Congress. And they spent $32 million on that race because they thought they're gonna win.
It ended up that we won by five points. The good news, I'm five and 0.
Yes, right.
OK. And these races will last a little while. And I want to keep it. I want to make this one, six and 0. This is an important one, so I want to make it six and 0.
But I'm doing it really for the country. I mean, he is a good man. We can't lose him.
So you -- President, you said, obviously, and it was Roy Moore. I know you were saying Ray. But Roy Moore and -- but I wanted to clarify that for the audience who you were talking about. Obviously, this would not be somebody that we would be against as far as who he is.
But when you're talking about the strategy, and I think you're right, if Luther doesn't win this, there's a shot that he's kind of -- Roy's done a great job as a judge. But when it comes to a senator and some of the things he's been part of, whether it's right or not, the Democrats are going to try to turn this into something they think they have hope in. And is that part of the motivation? And I know you said it was them. But when you tell people right now about Luther, you also think with -- right now, with every single vote that counts, you just feel like this is somebody that's going to push your agenda through without hesitation.
Well, I think that Luther will be absolutely fantastic in terms of agenda. He wants the wall. He's very, very tough on crime. Remember this that if Luther didn't run, if he would have -- in other words, if he weren't appointed, let's say, he was Attorney General and he stayed Attorney General, etc., etc., and then he ran, nobody would even run against him.
He would have been -- but because he was appointed by a little bit of a controversial guy, I guess, as I understand it, now, it makes the race tough. If he would have done nothing and just run now against -- and it might be that Roy Moore, as you say, because I don't know Roy Moore at all.
Right.
