Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Manchester, NH|November 7, 2016
[This was transcribed and punctuated by Factba.se's AI, Margaret, and automatically corrected based on her understanding of Donald Trump's speech patterns. It has not been edited by a human. Please double-check any quotes against the video.]
Wow, thank you, everybody. Wow, thank you, everybody. Wow, thank you, everybody. Thank you, man. There's a lot of people. Thank you, man. There's a lot of people. Thank you, man. There's a lot of people. This is fantastic. This is fantastic. This is fantastic. Thank you very much. So thank you. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much. First of all, we made thank you very much. First of all, we made thank you very much. First of all, we made a great choice in picking Governor Mike a great choice in picking Governor Mike a great choice in picking Governor Mike Pence, didn't we Pence, didn't we Pence, didn't we.
Thank you. Thank you, Karen. Wider group, thank you. Thank you, Karen. Wider group. Thank you. Thank you, Karen. Wider group, Mike, this is big by any standard here, Mike. This is big by any standard here, Mike. This is big by any standard here and here's the good news there are - and here's the good news there are - and here's the good news.
There are thousands of people outside trying to thousands of people outside trying to thousands of people outside trying to get in. You believe what's going on, so it all began for me in New Hampshire. So it all began for me in New Hampshire. So it all began for me in New Hampshire, the first state we want remember the - the first state we want, remember the - the first state we want, remember the promise I made promise I made promise I made we will stop those drugs from pouring in.
We will stop those drugs from pouring in. We will stop those drugs from pouring in poisoning, your children poisoning poisoning, your children poisoning poisoning, your children poisoning, everyone else. And they will work very everyone else and they will work very everyone else and they will work very hard to get people off that addiction, hard to get people off that addiction, hard to get people off that addiction.
It's going to happen. We're gonna do it. I - it's going to happen, we're gonna do it. I - it's going to happen. We're gonna do it. I said I was going to do it and we're said I was going to do it and we're said I was going to do it and we're gonna do it. So I want to thank everybody gonna do it. So I want to thank everybody gonna do it.
So I want to thank everybody in New Hampshire. Thank you. My family was - you're sick come on my - my family was - you're sick come on my - my family was - you're sick come on my children were here and I just - Tiffany children were here and I just - Tiffany children were here and I just - Tiffany, Jared Ivanka, Jared Ivanka.
Jared Ivanka, we know the Pens family, very, very famous. We know the Pens family, very, very famous. We know the Pens family, very, very famous. And by the way, I just looked at the - and by the way, I just looked at the - and by the way, I just looked at the numbers, Indiana is doing very well. You numbers.
Indiana is doing very well. You numbers. Indiana is doing very well. You have done a great job, a great job. Thank - have done a great job, a great job. Thank have done a great job, a great job. Thank you. Thank you, Karen, you thank you, Karen, you thank you Karen. Don's Union, Vanessa, Eric and Laura.
Don's Union, Vanessa. Eric and Laura, Don's Union, Vanessa, Eric and Laura, they've been such a big part and you - they've been such a big part and you they've been such a big part and you know, I've been reading about all these know I've been reading about all these know. I've been reading about all these surrogates going all over for Hillary surrogates going all over for Hillary surrogates going all over for Hillary Clinton.
But I had my family, I had the Clinton, but I had my family, I had the Clinton, but I had my family. I had the best surrogates of all. They were all best surrogates of all. They were all best surrogates of all they were all over. They were all over. So. So I just over they were all over. So, so I just over they were all over.
So. So I just want to thank you, Ivanka, maybe on behalf want to thank you, Ivanka, maybe on behalf want to thank you, Ivanka, maybe on behalf of the family. Say a couple of words. Well, I was not planning on speaking well. I was not planning on speaking well, I was not planning on speaking tonight, but I did want to be here on tonight, but I did want to be here on tonight.
But I did want to be here on this last night prior to Election Day to this last night prior to Election Day to this last night prior to Election Day to support my father. I am so incredibly support my father. I am so incredibly support my father. I am so incredibly proud of him, proud of him, proud of him what he's accomplished today and I know what he's accomplished today and I know what he's accomplished today and I know tomorrow will be another great day and tomorrow will be another great day.
And tomorrow will be another great day and then he will get to the real work of then he will get to the real work of then he will get to the real work of making this country great of working for making this country great of working for Making this country great of working for you, the American people and he will you the American people and he will you the American people and he will never ever let you down, never ever let you down, never ever let you down.
Thank you. We're grateful and God bless. Thank you. We're grateful and God bless. Thank you. We're grateful and God bless. Thank you very much. So again go and thank you very much. So again go and thank you very much. So again go and enjoy it. Let's go - have a good time and enjoy it. Let's go have a good time and enjoy it.
Let's go have a good time. And by the way, we are going right after this by the way, we are going right after this. By the way, we are going right after this to Michigan because Michigan is in play to Michigan because Michigan is in play to Michigan because Michigan is in play and I may get there a little bit late and I may get there a little bit late.
And I may get there a little bit late, but they're waiting. We have thousands, but they're waiting. We have thousands, but they're waiting. We have thousands and thousands of people. The polls just and thousands of people, the polls just and thousands of people. The polls just came out, we're leading in Michigan.
We're came out, we're leading in Michigan. We're came out, we're leading in Michigan. We're leading in New Hampshire. We're leaving leading in New Hampshire. We're leaving leading in New Hampshire. We're leaving in Ohio. We're leading in Iowa, leading in, in Ohio. We're leading in Iowa, leading in, in Ohio.
We're leading in Iowa, leading in North Carolina. I think we're doing North Carolina. I think we're doing North Carolina. I think we're doing really, really well in Pennsylvania. And I really, really well in Pennsylvania and I really, really well in Pennsylvania and I do believe we are leading in Florida.
So do believe we are leading in Florida. So do believe we are leading in Florida. So it should be amazing. It's going to be - it should be amazing, it's going to be - it should be amazing, it's going to be amazing. So I want to thank everybody in amazing. So I want to thank everybody in amazing. So I want to thank everybody in folks.
Go ahead and Mike, I'll see you in folks go ahead and Mike, I'll see you in folks go ahead and Mike, I'll see you in a little while. I think Mike is going to a little while. I think Mike is going to a little while. I think Mike is going to come with me to Michigan, right. Thank you. Come with me to Michigan, right.
Thank you. Come with me to Michigan. Right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much. Well, you know, we said we want to finish well, you know, we said we want to finish.
Well, you know we said we want to finish off in New Hampshire because of the off in New Hampshire because of the off in New Hampshire because of the incredible relationship I have, but who incredible relationship I have but who incredible relationship I have. But who would have expected this right, who would - would have expected this right, who would - would have expected this, right, who would have expected this is something so a have expected this is something so a have expected.
This is something. So a couple of things to people. I have a lot - couple of things to people. I have a lot - couple of things to people. I have a lot of respect for really like as people of respect for really like as people of respect for really like as people incredible people and because they're so incredible people and because they're so incredible people and because they're so important to the area, I thought I would important to the area I thought I would important to the area.
I thought I would give you this information. They've told give you this information. They've told, give you this information. They've told me I can do it. So I will do it. Tom Brady, great guy, great, great guy, great, great guy, great, great guy, great friend of my great, great, great guy, great friend of my great, great, great guy, great friend of my great, great champion, unbelievable winner he called today and he said Donald I he called today And he said Donald, I - he called today and he said Donald, I support you, you're my friend and I voted support you, you're my friend and I voted support you, you're my friend and I voted for you for you for you.
And I want to tell you this guy is a - and I want to tell you this guy is a - and I want to tell you, this guy is a champ and he is a winner and he is a champ and he is a winner. And he is a champ and he is a winner and he is a great person, great person, great person. So I said - so Tom, you voted for me, you so I said.
So Tom you voted for me, you so I said. So Tom, you voted for me, you support me, am I allowed to say it support me. Am I allowed to say it support me? Am I allowed to say it tonight to this massive crowd in New tonight to this massive crowd in New tonight to this massive crowd in New Hampshire. He said, if you want to say you Hampshire, he said, if you want to say you Hampshire, he said, if you want to say, you can say it okay, Tom, that's what a champ can say it okay, Tom, that's what a champ can say it okay, Tom, That's what a champ is all about and another person very is all about and another person very is all about and another person very close to Tom actually for a lot of close to Tom actually for a lot of close to Tom actually for a lot of Reasons you'll understand in a second, I reasons you'll understand in a second.
I reasons you'll understand in a second. I have unbelievable respect for him, have unbelievable respect for him, have unbelievable respect for him champion in every way. And I was in the champion in every way and I was in the champion in every way and I was in the plane and they handed me a letter and it plane and they handed me a letter and it plane and they handed me a letter.
And it was from coach Belichick and he wrote me the most beautiful letter. He wrote me the most beautiful letter. He wrote me the most beautiful letter and it was only two hours ago. So we - and it was only two hours ago. So we - and it was only two hours ago, so we called back, we said, do you think that called back, we said, do you think that called back?
We said, do you think that mr. Trump could read that letter to the mr. Trump could read that letter to the mr. Trump could read that letter to the people of New Hampshire. And he said absolutely, if you'd like he and he said absolutely if you'd like, he and he said absolutely if you'd like he said, but do me a favor, don't read that said.
But do me a favor, don't read that said. But do me a favor, don't read that letter. Let me send one, that's a little letter. Let me send one, that's a little letter. Let me send one that's a little bit different. So I figured he was going bit different. So I figured he was going bit different, so I figured he was going to take all the good things out right to take all the good things out right to take all the good things out, right, like most gutless people do gutless, but like most gutless people Do gutless, but like most gutless, people do gutless, but he's the opposite.
He's a champ, so he - he's the opposite. He's a champ, so he - he's the opposite. He's a champ. So he sent me the new letter and it was much sent me the new letter and it was much sent me the new letter and it was much better. It was stronger, see most people better. It was stronger, see most people better.
It was stronger. See most people don't do that. Most people of the don't do that. Most people of the don't do that. Most people of the opposite. Oh, gee, I don't want to get opposite. Oh, gee, I don't want to get opposite. Oh, gee, I don't want to get involved, involved involved. This guy is a true champ.
So he writes this guy is a true champ. So he writes this guy is a true champ. So he writes coach, Belichick. Congratulations on a coach Belichick. Congratulations on a coach Belichick. Congratulations on a tremendous campaign. You have dealt with tremendous campaign. You have dealt with tremendous campaign.
You have dealt with an unbelievable slanted and negative, an unbelievable slanted and negative, an unbelievable slanted and negative media and have come out beautifully media and have come out beautifully media and have come out beautifully, beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. You've proved to be the ultimate, you've proved to be the ultimate, you've proved to be the ultimate competitor and fighter your leadership competitor and fighter your leadership competitor and fighter.
Your leadership is amazing. I have always had tremendous, is amazing. I have always had tremendous, is amazing. I have always had tremendous respect for you, but the toughness and respect for you, but the toughness and respect for you, but the toughness and perseverance you have displayed over the perseverance you have displayed over the perseverance you have displayed over the past year is remarkable.
Hopefully past year is remarkable. Hopefully past year is remarkable. Hopefully tomorrow's election results will give tomorrow's election results will give tomorrow's election results, will give the opportunity to make America great the opportunity to make America great the opportunity to make America great again.
Again, again, best wishes for great results tomorrow, best wishes for great results tomorrow. Best wishes for great results tomorrow, bill belichick, so I just wan na, I just bill belichick, so I just wan na, I just bill belichick. So I just - wan na, I just - it is funny though when he said I really - it is funny though when he said I really - it is funny though when he said I really want to redo the letter.
I really did want to redo the letter. I really did want to redo the letter. I really did expect to get a little bit because I expect to get a little bit because I expect to get a little bit because I understand how most people work, but most understand how most people work. But most understand how most people work, but most people aren't the coach.
So Tom Brady and people aren't the coach. So Tom Brady and people aren't the coach. So Tom Brady and Bill Belichick, I want to thank you both Bill Belichick, I want to thank you both. Bill Belichick, I want to thank you both and go win a good Super Bowl or whatever and go win a good Super Bowl or whatever and go win a good Super Bowl or whatever you want to do.
Boy, what a combination you want to do, boy, what a combination you want to do, boy, what a combination never been a better combination, but when never been a better combination, but when never been a better combination. But when you know them personally, like I do, you know them personally like I do, you know them personally like I do, they're even better tomorrow.
We are - they're even better tomorrow. We are - they're even better tomorrow. We are going to win the great state of New going to win the great state of New going to win the great state of New Hampshire. And we are going to take back Hampshire and we are going to take back Hampshire and we are going to take back the White House.
We are going to deliver the White House. We are going to deliver the White House. We are going to deliver historic once-in-a-lifetime change when historic once-in-a-lifetime change when historic once-in-a-lifetime change. When the people of this country from Florida, the people of this country from Florida, the people of this country from Florida to Minnesota, from New Mexico to right to Minnesota, from New Mexico to right to Minnesota, from New Mexico to right here in New Hampshire.
Step on to the here in New Hampshire, step on to the here in New Hampshire, step on to the voting booth. Tomorrow, there is one voting booth tomorrow, there is one voting booth tomorrow, there is one fundamental question for you to consider fundamental question for you to consider fundamental question for you to consider.
Do you want America to be ruled by the - do you want America to be ruled by the - do you want America to be ruled by the corrupt political class or do you want corrupt political class or do you want corrupt political class or do you want America To be ruled again by the people America to be ruled again by the people America to be ruled again by the people I am asking for the votes of all I am asking for the votes of all I am asking for the votes of all Americans, Democrats, Republicans, Americans, Democrats, Republicans, Americans, Democrats, Republicans, independents, time voters and there are a independents time voters and there are a independents time voters and there are a lot of those first time voters folks was lot of those first time voters folks was lot of those first time Voters folks was so desperately in need of change.
Can you so desperately in need of change? Can you so desperately in need of change? Can you imagine having Hillary Clinton for four imagine having Hillary Clinton for four imagine having Hillary Clinton for four years years, years. Can you imagine Hillary Clinton's only? Can you imagine Hillary Clinton's only?
Can you imagine? Hillary Clinton's? Only allegiance is to herself? Her donors and allegiance is to herself? Her donors and allegiance is to herself her donors and her special interests. My only special her special interests, my only special her special interests, my only special interest is to you believe me is to you.
Interest is to you believe me is to you. Interest is to you, believe me is to you. That's why I'm doing this. That's why I'm - that's why I'm doing this. That's why I'm - that's why I'm doing this. That's why I'm doing this. The corrupt special interests doing this, the corrupt special interests doing this, the corrupt special interests have stolen your jobs and shift your - have stolen your jobs and shift your - have stolen your jobs and shift your wealth to other countries.
They've wealth to other countries. They've wealth to other countries, they've betrayed the working class of this betrayed the working class of this betrayed the working class of this country tomorrow, the American working country tomorrow, the American working country tomorrow, the American working class will strike back.
It's about time, real change begins with immediately real change begins with immediately real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare. It's just been announced that Americans, it's just been announced that Americans it's just been announced that Americans nationwide are going to experience a nationwide are going to experience a nationwide are going to experience a massive double digit and triple digit, massive double digit and triple digit massive Double digit and triple digit premium hike over 90 % of the counties in premium hike over 90 % of the counties in premium hike.
Over 90 % of the counties in New Hampshire are losing. Obama care New Hampshire are losing. Obama care, New Hampshire are losing. Obama care insurers next year, lots of luck in your insurers next year, lots of luck in your insurers next year. Lots of luck in your negotiation. Honestly, folks not going to negotiation.
Honestly folks not going to negotiation. Honestly, folks not going to matter. We're gonna have it terminated matter. We're gonna have it terminated matter. We're gonna have it terminated. We're gonna have great health care at a - we're gonna have great health care at a - we're gonna have great health care at a fraction of the cost.
So it's not going fraction of the cost. So it's not going fraction of the cost. So it's not going to matter, I want you to leave here, happy to matter. I want you to leave here, happy to matter. I want you to leave here happy tonight. Tonight, tonight, mm surgeon companies are leaving, mm surgeon companies are leaving, mm surgeon companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are insurers are fleeing, doctors are insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting and deductibles are going quitting and deductibles are going quitting and deductibles are going through the Roof yet Hillary Clinton through the roof, yet Hillary Clinton through the roof, yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making wants to double down on Obamacare, making wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.
I'm asking for it even more expensive. I'm asking for it even more expensive. I'm asking for your vote. So we can repeal and replace your vote, so we can repeal and replace your vote. So we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every Obamacare and save health care for every Obamacare and save health care for every family in New Hampshire and in our family, in New Hampshire and in our family, in New Hampshire and in our country.
Country country real change also means restoring honesty. Real change also means restoring honesty. Real change also means restoring honesty to government. Let's start by getting rid to government. Let's start by getting rid to government. Let's start by getting rid of Clinton. That's the best of Clinton.
That's the best of Clinton. That's the best. By the way. Did you ever see anything by the way, did you ever see anything by the way, did you ever see anything like happening right now? Have we ever like happening right now? Have we ever like happening right now? Have we ever seen anything like this four-star general james Cartwright; two four-star general james Cartwright.
Two four-star general james Cartwright. Two weeks ago for a tiny, tiny infraction by weeks ago for a tiny, tiny infraction by weeks ago for a tiny, tiny infraction by comparison can go to jail for up to five comparison can go to jail for up to five comparison can go to jail for Up to five years and might very well general years and might very well general years and might very well general petraeus life was destroyed, reputation petraeus life was destroyed, reputation petraeus life was destroyed, reputation totally destroyed for something that was totally destroyed for something that was totally Destroyed for something that was a fraction of what Hillary Clinton did, a fraction of what Hillary Clinton did a fraction of what Hillary Clinton did, what a shame what a shame what a shame so said, Hillary Clinton is the most.
So said, Hillary Clinton is the most. So said, Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office corrupt person ever to seek the office corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency of the United States. She threatened national security, she she threatened national security, she she threatened national security.
She sold her office to the highest bidder, sold her office to the highest bidder, sold her office to the highest bidder and then to cover her tracks, she deleted and then to cover her tracks she deleted and then to cover her tracks. She deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a 33,000 emails after receiving a 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena that in itself congressional subpoena that in itself congressional subpoena that in itself disqualifies her from running for disqualifies her from running for disqualifies her from running for president.
She should be allowed to run president. She should be allowed to run president. She should be allowed to run. She's being protected by a totally - she's being protected by a totally - she's being protected by a totally rigged system. I've been saying it for a rigged system. I've been saying it for a rigged system, I've been saying it for a long time, long time, long time drain the swamp Hilary has shown drain the swamp.
Hilary has shown drain the swamp. Hilary has shown contempt for the working people of this contempt for the working people of this contempt for the working people of this country. Her campaign in WikiLeaks has country her campaign in WikiLeaks has country. Her campaign in WikiLeaks has spoken horribly about Catholics and spoken horribly about Catholics and spoken horribly about Catholics and evangelicals and so many others evangelicals and so many others evangelicals and so many others.
They got it all down. Folks WikiLeaks, they got it all down, folks WikiLeaks, they got it all down, folks WikiLeaks, WikiLeaks and what Podesta said about WikiLeaks and what Podesta said about WikiLeaks and what Podesta said about her bad instincts. He said she's got bad, her bad instincts. He said she's got bad, her bad instincts, he said she's got bad instincts and Bernie said there said bad instincts and Bernie said there said bad instincts and Bernie said there said bad judgment, right?
So do we want a president judgment, right? So do we want a president judgment right? So do we want a president with bad instincts and bad judgment. I with bad instincts and bad judgment, I with bad instincts and bad judgment. I don't think we're going to stand up for. Don't think we're going to stand up for, don't think we're going to stand up for the Catholics and we're going to stand the Catholics and we're going to stand the Catholics and we're going to stand up for the evangelicals WikiLeaks just up for the evangelicals WikiLeaks just Up for the evangelicals WikiLeaks just released another debate question, Hillary released another debate question.
Hillary released another debate question. Hillary got another one just one hour ago I said got another one. Just one hour ago I said got another one. Just one hour ago, I said I have to mention it, you know, if you go - I have to mention it. You know, if you go, I have to mention it, you know, if you go to West Point or Annapolis or the Air to West Point or Annapolis or the Air to West Point or Annapolis or the Air Force Academy.
And if you get the Force Academy and if you get the Force Academy and if you get the questions to a test and if you don't questions to a test and if you don't questions to a test and if you don't report yourself, they throw you out. Said report yourself, they throw you out, said report yourself, they throw you out.
Said said to me, it's one of the bad things a said to me, it's one of the bad things a said to me it's one of the bad things. A lot of my people they say, oh, let's not lot of my people, they say, oh, let's not lot of my people, they say, oh, let's not talk about that. I should talk about it, talk about that, I should talk about it, talk about that.
I should talk about it. Donna brazile got the questions. Donna, donna brazile got the questions. Donna, donna brazile got the questions. Donna brazile took those questions and gave brazile, took those questions and gave brazile, took those questions and gave them to crooked, Hillary right and them to crooked, Hillary right and them to crooked Hillary right?
And Hillary didn't do anything. Hillary didn't do anything. Hillary didn't do anything. She took the question and I'll tell you, she took the question and I'll tell you, she took the question and I'll tell you what if I were Bernie Sanders, I wouldn't - what if I were Bernie Sanders, I wouldn't - what if I were Bernie Sanders, I wouldn't be Too happy and she probably did it be too happy and she probably did it be too happy and she probably did it with me too.
But did we win those debates with me too, but did we win those debates with me too? But did we win those debates or walk wouldn't matter, wouldn't matter. So she wouldn't matter, wouldn't matter. So she wouldn't matter, wouldn't matter. So she got those questions. She never turned him, got those questions.
She never turned him, got those questions. She never turned him in folks. Remember, you dealing with a - in folks, remember you dealing with a - in folks, remember you dealing with a very dishonest person, my contract with very dishonest person, my contract with very dishonest person. My contract with the American motor begins with a plan to the American motor, begins with a plan to the American motor, begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take end government corruption and to take end government corruption and to take our country back from The special our country back from the special our country back from the special interests, I want the entire corrupt interests.
I want the entire corrupt interests. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear these Washington establishment to hear these Washington establishment. To hear these words from all of us, when we win words from all of us, when we win words from all of us when we win tomorrow, we are going to drain the swamp tomorrow.
We are going to drain the swamp tomorrow. We are going to drain the swamp. That is something that is something at that is something that is something at that is something that is something at the core of my contract is my plan to the core of my contract is my plan to the core of my contract is my plan to bring Our jobs back New Hampshire has bring our jobs back.
New Hampshire has bring our jobs back. New Hampshire has lost one in four of its manufacturing, lost one in four of its manufacturing, lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a disaster a deal, jobs since NAFTA, a disaster, a deal, jobs since NAFTA, a disaster, a deal signed by Bill Clinton And supported by signed by Bill Clinton and supported by signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife, Hillary, amazingly, America has lost listen to the amazingly America has lost listen to the - amazingly America has lost, listen to the 70,000 factories, 70,000 factories, 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade since China entered the World Trade since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary Organization, another Bill and Hillary Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.
We are living through backed disaster. We are living through backed disaster. We are living through the single greatest jobs theft in the - the single greatest jobs theft in the - the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world has never been. History of the world has never been. History of the world has never been anything like this.
The Trump anything like this, the Trump anything like this, the Trump administration will stop. The jobs from administration will stop. The jobs from administration will stop the jobs from leaving American and we will stop the leaving American and we will stop the leaving American and we will stop the jobs from leaving New Hampshire believe jobs from leaving New Hampshire believe jobs from leaving New Hampshire.
Believe me, we will stop those if a company wants to fire their workers, if a company wants to fire their workers, if a company wants to fire their workers, leave New Hampshire and move to another, leave New Hampshire and move to another, leave New Hampshire and move To another country and then ship their products country and then ship their products country and then ship their products back into the United States through what back into the United States through what back into the United States through what will soon be a very, very strong and Will soon be a very, very strong and will soon be a very, very strong and powerful border.
We will make them pay a 35 % tax on those. We will make them pay a 35 % tax on those. We will make them pay a 35 % tax on those products and you know what's gonna products and you know what's gonna products and you know what's gonna happen, you know what's gonna happen happen, you know what's gonna happen happen, you know What's gonna happen, they're never leaving, they're saying they're never leaving, they're saying they're never leaving.
They're saying this thing. We will renegotiate NAFTA. This thing we will renegotiate NAFTA. This thing we will renegotiate NAFTA, stand up to China and stop the stand up to China and stop the stand up to China and stop the job-killing trans-pacific partnership as job-killing trans-pacific partnership as job-killing trans-pacific partnership.
As part of our plan to bring back jobs. We part of our plan to bring back jobs. We part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American are going to lower taxes on American are going to lower taxes on American business from thirty five percent to business from thirty five percent to business from thirty five percent to Fifteen percent we will massively cut fifteen percent, we will massively cut fifteen percent.
We will massively cut taxes for the middle class. Hillary taxes for the middle class. Hillary taxes for the middle class, Hillary Clinton is raising taxes, very Clinton is raising taxes. Very Clinton is raising taxes very substantially. We will cancel billions substantially. We will cancel billions substantially.
We will cancel billions and global-warming payments to the - and global-warming payments to the - and global-warming payments to the United Nations, billions and billions and United Nations billions and billions and United Nations billions and billions and billions of dollars. And nobody knows billions of dollars and nobody knows billions of dollars and nobody knows where it goes and nobody knows what it's where it goes.
And nobody knows what it's where it goes and nobody knows what it's useful. I know where it goes goes into a useful. I know where it goes goes into a useful, I know where it goes, goes into a lot of people's pockets. That's where it lot of people's pockets, that's where it lot of people's pockets, that's where it goes, goes goes and we will use that money to invest in and we will use that money to invest in and we will use that money to invest in environmental infrastructure.
In the environmental infrastructure, in the environmental infrastructure in the United States of America, if you don't, United States of America, if you don't, United States of America, if you don't mind, right. And we will rebuild our mind right and we will rebuild our mind right and we will rebuild our innocence and the african-american innocence and the african-american innocence and the african-american community and the Hispanic community will love what's going to happen because will love what's going to happen Because will love what's going to happen because the inner cities in so many cases are the inner cities in so many cases are the inner cities in.
So many cases are like living in hell. Crime is rampant like living in hell. Crime is rampant like living in hell. Crime is rampant, horrible, horrible, horrible. You can't walk to a store without. You can't walk to a store without - you can't walk to a store without getting shot. Schools are terrible as bad getting shot, schools are terrible as bad getting shot, schools are terrible as bad as it gets and there are no jobs.
We're. As it gets and there are no jobs, we're - as it gets and there are no jobs, we're going to bring back the jobs, we're going going to bring back the jobs. We're going going to bring back the jobs, we're going to fix the schools and make them to fix the schools and make them to fix the schools and make them terrific.
And we're going to make the terrific and we're going to make the terrific and we're going to make the inner city safe, inner city, safe, inner city safe. We're going to make them safe and as you - we're going to make them safe. And as you - we're going to make them safe and as you know, the Democrats for longer than a know the Democrats for longer than a know the Democrats for longer than a hundred years, in many cases, unbroken hundred years in many cases, unbroken hundred years.
In many cases, unbroken chain have been in charge of the inner chain, have been in charge of the inner chain, have been in charge of the inner cities. And you know what, they want, they cities and you know what they want. They cities and you know what they want, they want your vote then they say, see you in want your vote then they say see you in want your vote then they say see you in four years, folks, they do nothing, I will four years folks, they do Nothing I will four years folks, they do nothing, I will fix the inner cities and I ask you fix the inner cities and I ask you fix the inner cities and I ask you though what do you have to lose believe though, what do you have to Lose believe though, what do you have to lose?
Believe me, we will do such a great job. What do me? We will do such a great job. What do me? We will do such a great job, what do you have to lose and we've been doing. You have to lose and we've been doing, you have to lose and we've been doing very well. If you look down in Florida very well, if you look down in Florida very well, if you look down in Florida, look at those long lines, we have been look at those long lines.
We have been look at those long lines. We have been doing very well with the doing very well with the doing very well with the african-american community and with the african-american community and with the african-american community and with the Hispanic community and all of the Hispanic community and all of the Hispanic community.
And all of the dishonest breasts, they're saying what's dishonest breasts, they're saying what's dishonest breasts, they're saying what's going on here, what's going on among the going on here, what's going on among the going on here, what's going on among the world's most dishonest people look at World's most dishonest people look at world's most dishonest, people look at all of them, oh, look at all those camera, look at all those cameras.
Why don't you look at all those cameras, why don't you look at all those cameras? Why don't you twirl the cameras folks go ahead, twirl, twirl, the cameras, folks go ahead, twirl, twirl, the cameras, folks go ahead, twirl them show the crowd, them show the crowd, them show the crowd, oh the crowd, they don't do it.
And oh, the crowd, they don't do it and oh, the crowd, they don't do it. And outside you have another 10,000 was just outside. You have another 10,000 was just outside, you have another 10,000 was just record at 10,000. These are the world's record at 10,000. These are the world's record at 10,000. These are the world's bad people, too, dishonest people that bad people too, dishonest people that bad people too, dishonest people that very, very dishonest, but not all of them, very, very dishonest, but not all of them.
Very, very dishonest, but not all of them. But I would say most of them and - but I would say most of them and - but I would say most of them and although you heard you heard the coach, although you heard you heard the coach, although you heard you heard the coach, he mentioned it too. I guess he's got his - he mentioned it too.
I guess he's got his - he mentioned it too. I guess he's got his difficulties with them all so now difficulties with them all. So now difficulties with them all. So now they're very dishonest. I will be a - they're very dishonest, I will be a - they're very dishonest. I will be a champion for all Americans against this champion for all Americans against this champion for all Americans.
Against this unfair and corrupt system, we will become unfair and corrupt system. We will become unfair and corrupt system. We will become a rich nation again, but to be a rich, a rich nation again, but to be a rich, a rich nation again, but to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation nation. We must also be a safe nation nation.
We must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton wants a five hundred and Hillary Clinton wants a five hundred and Hillary Clinton wants a five hundred and fifty percent increase in Syrian. Fifty percent increase in Syrian fifty percent increase. In Syrian refugees coming into the United States, refugees coming into the United States, refugees coming into the United States, can't do it.
Folks can't do her. Plan will can't do it, folks can't do her plan will can't do it. Folks can't do her plan, will import generations of terrorism, import generations of terrorism, import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into your extremism and radicalism into your extremism and radicalism into your schools.
And throughout your communities, schools and throughout your communities, schools and throughout your communities, when I'm elected president, we will - when I'm elected president, we will - when I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program and suspend the Syrian refugee program and suspend the Syrian refugee program.
And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists, we will keep radical Islamic terrorists. We will keep radical Islamic terrorists, the hell out of our country. Believe me the hell out of our country, believe me the hell out of our country. Believe me, a Trump administration will also secure a Trump administration will also secure a Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United and defend the borders of the United and defend the borders of the United States.
And yes, we will build a great States and yes, we will build a great States and yes, we will build a great, great wall, great wall, great wall. And don't forget New Hampshire, I promise. And don't forget New Hampshire, I promise. And don't forget New Hampshire, I promise you. I promised you when I won New you.
I promised you when I won New you. I promised you when I won New Hampshire and the primer I promised you, Hampshire and the primer I promised you, Hampshire and the primer I promised you. I said we are going to stop the drugs. I said we are going to stop the drugs. I said we are going to stop the drugs from flowing in gonna stop them from - from flowing in gonna stop them from from flowing in gonna stop them from flowing.
We're gonna stop the drugs from flowing. We're gonna stop the drugs from flowing. We're gonna stop the drugs from poisoning, your children and plenty of poisoning, your children and plenty of poisoning, your children and plenty of others. We're going to build the wall. Others, we're going to build the wall.
Others, we're going to build the wall. I was endorsed by so many people having - I was endorsed by so many people having - I was endorsed by so many people having to do with the borders, the Border Patrol to do with the borders, the Border Patrol to do with the borders, the Border Patrol agents, Ice all endorsed Donald Trump agents, ice all endorsed Donald Trump agents, ice all endorsed Donald Trump such an honor for me because he's a such an honor for me because he's a such an honor for me because he's a great want to do their job.
But I great want to do their job, but I great want to do their job. But I promised you that if I got this far, you promised you that if I got this far, you promised you that if I got this far, you were the first ones. And you were the - were the first ones and you were the - were the first ones and you were the first ones that really taught me how bad first ones that really taught me how bad first ones that really taught me how bad the drug epidemic is.
I met with your - the drug epidemic is I met with your - the drug epidemic is I met with your police who are incredible people by the police who are incredible people by the police who are incredible people by the way. And they explained and I guess made way and they explained and I guess made way and they explained and I guess made a big impact on me because I Love New - a big impact on me because I Love New - a big impact on me because I Love New Hampshire, I love the beauty of New Hampshire.
I love the beauty of New Hampshire. I love the beauty of New Hampshire, the trees, the winding roads, Hampshire, the trees, the winding roads, Hampshire, the trees, the winding roads, the lakes, the rivers, the whole thing, the, the lakes, the rivers, the whole thing, the, the lakes, the rivers, the whole thing, the little Streams, so I'd meet with people little streams, so I'd meet with people little streams.
So I'd meet with people and I'd say what's your biggest problem? And I'd say what's your biggest problem? And I'd say what's your biggest problem and they'd say heroin, I say heroin it and they'd say heroin, I say heroin it and they'd say heroin, I say heroin. It made such an impact because it just made such an impact because it just made such an impact because it just doesn't seem to work with.
The beauty of doesn't seem to work with the beauty of doesn't seem to work with the beauty of your area. But I said we would stop it, we your area, but I said we would stop it, we your area, but I said we would stop it, we will stop it 100 % and then we are going will stop it 100 % and then we are going will Stop it 100 % and then we are going to work on helping the people who is so to work on helping the people who is so to work on helping the people who is so seriously addicted.
Okay, we are going to seriously addicted, okay, we are going to seriously addicted, okay, we are going to do - do do Hilary Clinton totally supports open Hilary Clinton, totally supports open Hilary Clinton. Totally supports open borders there ago. Is your country which borders there ago is your country which borders there ago is your country, which means unlimited drugs pouring into your means, unlimited drugs, pouring into your means, unlimited drugs pouring into your states, pouring into our country, Hillary states pouring into our country, Hillary states Pouring into our country, Hillary also strongly supports sanctuary.
Cities, also strongly supports sanctuary. Cities also strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco, where Kate Steinle, like San Francisco, where Kate Steinle, like San Francisco, where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant and was murdered by an illegal immigrant and was murdered by an illegal immigrant and deported.
Probably more than five times deported, probably more than five times deported, probably more than five times, we will cancel all federal funding to. We will cancel all federal funding to - we will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities, Olivia, sanctuary cities, Olivia, sanctuary cities, Olivia Oliver.
We will stop illegal immigration, Oliver. We will stop illegal immigration, Oliver. We will stop illegal immigration, stop the drugs from pouring into our stop the drugs from pouring into our stop the drugs from pouring into our country and dismantle every last country and dismantle every last country.
And dismantle every last criminal gang in cartel threatening our criminal gang in cartel, threatening our criminal gang in cartel threatening our citizens. We will also repeal the Obama citizens. We will also repeal the Obama citizens. We will also repeal the Obama, Clinton defense II question and rebuild, Clinton defense II question and rebuild Clinton defense II question and rebuild our badly depleted military we needed.
So our badly depleted military we needed. So our badly depleted military we needed so badly. Now this will be a national effort and a this will be a national effort and a this will be a national effort and a major part of this rebuilding will be major. Part of this rebuilding will be major. Part of this rebuilding will be the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, gonna be a - the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard, gonna be a - the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard gonna be a big part of it folks, a big part.
We have big part of it folks, a big part. We have big part of it folks, a big part. We have now the smallest Navy by the way does now the smallest Navy by the way does now the smallest Navy. By the way, does anyone know this the smallest Navy that anyone know this, the smallest Navy that anyone know this, the smallest Navy that we've had since World War one we're - we've had since World War one we're - we've had since World War one, we're going to build It back up, I'm honored to going to build it back up.
I'm honored to going to build it back up. I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 have the endorsement of more than 200, have the endorsement of more than 200 top Admirals and generals and 22 Medal top Admirals and generals and 22 Medal top Admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients.
And the list goes on of Honor recipients and the list goes on of Honor recipients and the list goes on and on and up and up every day, Hillary and on and up and up every day, Hillary and on and up and up every day. Hillary. And our failed establishment have and our failed establishment have and our failed establishment have dragged us into foreign wars that have dragged us into foreign wars that have dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe and that we never win, made us less safe.
And that we never win, made us less safe and that we never win. We never win, we fight and fight and we never win, we fight and fight and we never win. We fight and fight and fight like Moselle. We give them four fight like Moselle, we give them four fight like Moselle, we give them four months note and we're going into Mosul months note and we're going into Mosul months note and we're going into Mosul.
What about the element of surprise, what about the element of surprise? What about the element of surprise? Remember the old element of surprise. We remember the old element of surprise. We remember the old element of surprise. We are going to be attacking Mosul in four, are going to be attacking Mosul in four, are going to be attacking Mosul in four months.
We will hit him from the rear we months. We will hit him from the rear we months. We will hit him from the rear. We will hit him from the front. We will will hit him from the front. We will will hit him from the front. We will paratroop in. We will do all sorts of paratroop in. We will do all sorts of paratroop in, we will do all sorts of thing then three months.
They say, ken thing, then three months, they say ken thing, then three months, they say ken, then two months then one months and a then two months then one months and a then two months then one months and a couple of weeks I'm hearing. We expect to couple of weeks, I'm hearing we expect to couple of weeks, I'm hearing we expect to be attacking Mosul next week.
These are be attacking Mosul next week. These are be attacking Mosul next week. These are smart people. One of the reasons we're smart people, one of the reasons we're smart people. One of the reasons we're attacking as we want to get the leaders attacking as we want to get the leaders attacking as we want to get the leaders of Isis, who we feel is staying in Mosul of Isis, who we feel is staying in Mosul of Isis.
Who we feel is staying in Mosul, they left after the first mention that they left after the first mention that they left after the first mention that we're going to attack. Don't these people we're going to attack, don't these people we're going to attack, don't these people understand it? Oh, what a bunch of people understand it?
Oh, what a bunch of people understand it? Oh, what a bunch of people we have. We have - we have what a bunch of people, I mean, we've got what a bunch of people. I mean, we've got what a bunch of people. I mean, we've got a president. All he wants to do is a president. All he wants to do is a president.
All he wants to do is campaign for crooked, Hillary, that's all campaign for crooked, Hillary, that's all campaign for crooked Hillary, that's all he wants to do. You know, he takes that big, that big 747, you know, he takes that big, that big 747, you know, he takes that big, that big 747 Air Force one.
Those big old engines, that Air Force one, those big old engines that Air Force one, those big old engines that spew the stuff rent and he flies it all spew the stuff rent and he flies it all spew the stuff rent and he flies it all over The place campaigning for Hillary over the place campaigning for Hillary over the place campaigning for Hillary and then he talks about let's not affect and then he talks about let's not affect and then he talks about, let's not affect the ozone layer.
What a joke, what a joke and he shouldn't, what a joke what a joke and he shouldn't, what a joke what a joke and he shouldn't be campaigning, he should be out trying be campaigning, he should be out trying be campaigning, he should be out trying to Get our jobs back trying to secure to get our jobs back, trying to secure to get our jobs back, trying to secure our borders, building up our military, our borders, building up our military, our borders, building up our military, stopping our drug problem, amazing Mazen stopping our Drug problem, amazing Mazen stopping our drug problem, amazing Mazen and Hillary can't fill a room look, look and Hillary can't fill a room look, look and Hillary can't fill a room.
Look, look at this is called - this is called filling at. This is called - this is called filling at, this is called, this is called filling in sated and I have no guitar and no in sated and I have no guitar and no in sated and I have no guitar and no piano, right. I mean, she gets jay-z and piano, right?
I mean, she gets jay-z and piano, right? I mean, she gets jay-z and Beyonce, the other night, the language, right, the language was so the language, right, the language was so the language, right, the language was so bad. People were insulted, they started bad people were insulted, they started bad people were insulted, they started walking out, hillary then walks under the walking out, hillary then walks under the walking out.
Hillary then walks under the stage, hug him, hug him, hug him and then stage hug him, hug him, hug him and then stage hug him, hug him, hug him. And then she says donald trump uses such foul. She says donald trump uses such foul. She says donald trump uses such foul language, give me a break. Did you hear language?
Give me a break, did you hear language? Give me a break, did you hear what he was saying? And tonight, yes, bruce, what he was saying and tonight, yes, bruce, what he was saying and tonight, yes, bruce springsteen, what they don't say is this springsteen. What they don't say is this springsteen, what they don't say is this.
So they perform actually in the case of - so they perform actually in the case of - so they perform. Actually in the case of jay-z, they were leaving consumer did jay-z, they were leaving consumer, did jay-z, they were leaving consumer. Did these people never heard language like these people never heard language like these people never heard language like that they started to live.
So what that they started to live. So what that they started to live. So what happens, they come in, listen, to the happens, they come in, listen to the happens, they come in, listen to the musician, which I think is the meaning to musician, which I think is the meaning to musician, which I think is the meaning to the pitlor.
It's actually demeaning to the pitlor. It's actually demeaning to the pitlor. It's actually demeaning to the political process. They listen, the political process, they listen, the political process, they listen because she can't fill a room she'd come because she can't fill a room she'd come because she can't fill a room she'd come here.
She'd have. I'm telling you she'd here. She'd have. I'm telling you she'd here, she'd have. I'm telling you, she'd have a hundred people sitting in the - have a hundred people sitting in the - have a hundred people sitting in the first floor. We're gonna have. We have first floor, we're gonna have - we have first floor, we're gonna have - we have 28,000 people including the people, 28,000 people including the people, 28,000 people including the people outside, more than Beyonce, more than JC, more than anybody.
And we don't have a more than anybody and we don't have a more than anybody and we don't have a guitar. What we do have is we all have guitar. What we do have is we all have guitar. What we do have is we all have together a great plan to make America together a great plan to make America together a great plan to make America great.
Again, that's what we have and also great. Again, that's what we have and also great. Again, that's what we have and also in all fairness, is there any place in all fairness, is there any place in all fairness, is there any place better than a trump rally to be, I mean better than a trump rally to be, I mean better than a Trump rally to be, I mean, right, right, right, is no place better.
So these politicians is no place better. So these politicians is no place better. So these politicians have shipped our jobs and our wealth all have shipped our jobs and our wealth all have shipped our jobs and our wealth all over the world and left our borders wide over the world and left our borders wide over the world and left our Borders wide open at home that will change open at home that will change open at home that will change immediately upon our victory.
Believe me immediately upon our victory, believe me immediately upon our victory, believe me and maybe a fan got ta get out and vote and maybe a fan got ta get out and vote and maybe a fan got ta get out and vote. Tomorrow's the day got to get out, we got tomorrow's the day got to get out. We got tomorrow's the day got to get out.
We got to get out and vote. One thing I'll say to get out and vote, one thing I'll say to get out and vote, one thing I'll say about New Hampshire, I've never about New Hampshire. I've never about New Hampshire. I've never disappointed New Hampshire, but New disappointed New Hampshire, but New disappointed.
New Hampshire, but New Hampshire has never disappointed in me, the primaries, they said Donald Trump, the, the primaries, they said Donald Trump, the, the primaries, they said Donald Trump. The end of the phony polls. Is these people end of the phony polls. Is these people end of the phony polls is these people like they said Donald Trump may not win like they said Donald Trump may not win like they said Donald Trump may not win New Hampshire.
I said that's surprising. I New Hampshire, I said that's surprising. I New Hampshire, I said that's surprising. I think I'm going to win. I think I'm gonna think I'm going to win. I think I'm gonna think I'm going to win. I think I'm gonna win and then we won by 18 points win. And then we won by 18 points win and then we won by 18 points with a lot of people.
You know, we had 17 with a lot of people, you know, we had 17 with a lot of people, you know we had 17 people, you know what else, right? Next people you know what else, right? Next people, you know what else right next door in Massachusetts where they're door in Massachusetts where they're door in Massachusetts where they're represented now, I know why you like represented now.
I know why you like represented now. I know why you like Bella checks so much. And Tom, Tom Brady Bella checks so much and Tom, Tom Brady Bella checks so much, and Tom, Tom Brady, by the way, is there a better reference by the way, is there a better reference, by the way, is there a better reference than Tom Brady and Bill Belichick for than Tom Brady and Bill Belichick for than Tom Brady and Bill Belichick for Kyle.
I don't think - I don't think so. You Kyle, I don't think - I don't think so. You Kyle, I don't think - I don't think so. You know, in Massachusetts we had what 14 know. In Massachusetts, we had what 14 know. In Massachusetts, we had what 14 people left. They go like this boom, boom people left. They go like this boom, boom people left.
They go like this boom, boom, boom. I think we had 14 people, boom, I think we had 14 people, boom, I think we had 14 people. We got 49 and a half percent of the vote. We got 49 and a half percent of the vote. We got 49 and a half percent of the vote and these dishonest pundits said Donald and these dishonest pundits said Donald and these dishonest pundits said Donald Trump has not broken 50. How do you break Trump has not broken 50. How do you break - Trump has not broken 50, how do you break 50 when you have 14 people, but we won we 50 when you have 14 people, but we won we 50 when you have 14 people.
But we won - we won Massachusetts, got over 49 % won, Massachusetts got over 49 % won, Massachusetts got over 49 %, and Massachusetts is represented by - and Massachusetts is represented by - and Massachusetts is represented by Pocahontas, Pocahontas nted by Pocahontas Pocahontas Pocahontas nted by Pocahontas Pocahontas Pocahontas Nted by Pocahontas, oh, she's terrible.
She is - she is just a - oh, she's terrible. She is - she is just a, oh, she's terrible. She is - she is just a terrible person, terrible, terrible person, terrible, terrible person, terrible. You know, Clinton thinks he's doing, you know, Clinton thinks he's doing, you know Clinton thinks he's doing yourself a favor to use this woman as a yourself, a favor to use this woman as a yourself a favor to use this woman as a surrogate.
Everybody that watches her surrogate, everybody that watches her surrogate, everybody that watches her, they say she is a terrible human being they say she is a terrible human being they say she is a terrible human being, she's terrible. So I don't know who's she's terrible. So I don't know who's she's terrible, so I don't know who's gonna challenge her, but whoever does you gonna challenge her, but whoever does you gonna challenge her?
But whoever does, you know, I hear a very great baseball know. I hear a very great baseball know. I hear a very great baseball pitcher is gonna challenge. He's are pitcher is gonna challenge. He's are pitcher is gonna challenge. He's are great and you know what, he's a great guy, great, and you know what, he's a great guy, great, and you know what, he's a great guy.
I don't know if he's going to do it, but I don't know if he's going to do it. But I don't know if he's going to do it, but he's a great guy. But Elizabeth Warren is - he's a great guy. But Elizabeth Warren is - he's a great guy. But Elizabeth, Warren is terrible and you know what, she's a terrible and you know what, she's a terrible and you know what, she's a terrible - let me tell you, she's a terrible - let me tell you, she's a terrible - let me tell you, she's a terrible senator.
Take a look at what terrible senator take a look at, what terrible senator take a look at, what she's passed, nothing, nothing. And in the - she's passed nothing, nothing. And in the - she's passed nothing, nothing. And in the Senate, everybody hates her, they don't Senate, everybody hates her, they don't Senate, everybody hates her, they don't want to even deal with her.
So I'll make - want to even deal with her. So I'll make - want to even deal with her. So I'll make you a deal. You can have Pocahontas, I'll you a deal. You can have Pocahontas, I'll you a deal. You can have Pocahontas, I'll take Tom Brady and Bill Belichick. Okay. And from now on, it's going to be America.
And from now on, it's going to be America and from now on, it's going to be America first to all Americans. I say it's time first to all Americans. I say it's time first to all Americans. I say it's time for change in time for leadership. Just for change in time for leadership just for change in time for leadership.
Just think about what we can accomplish in think about what we can accomplish in - think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a trump. The first 100 days of a trump, the first 100 days of a trump administration, we're going to have the administration, we're going to have the administration.
We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, even biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, even biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan even bigger and Hillary is going to raise bigger and Hillary is going to raise bigger and Hillary is going to raise your taxes Substantially, we're going to your taxes substantially.
We're going to your taxes substantially. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing, eliminate every unnecessary job-killing eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We will cancel every illegal regulation. We will cancel every illegal regulation. We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order.
Just he goes out Obama executive order, just he goes out, Obama executive order, just he goes out and plays golf so much that he doesn't and plays golf so much that he doesn't and plays golf so much that he doesn't have time to convince Congress to go. And have time to convince Congress to go and have time to convince Congress to go and let's do it the way it's supposed to be.
Let's do it the way it's supposed to be. Let's do it the way it's supposed to be done, right, right? I mean, he's played more done, right, right? I mean, he's played more done, right, right? I mean, he's played more golf than most people in the PGA Tour golf than most people in the PGA Tour golf than most people in the PGA Tour.
This guy like over 300 rounds this guy like over 300 rounds this guy like over 300 rounds. Hey, look it's good, golf is fine, but Hey, look it's good. Golf is fine, but Hey, look it's good. Golf is fine, but always play with leaders of countries always play with leaders of countries always play with leaders of countries and people that can help us, don't play and people that can help us don't play and people that can help us don't play with your friends.
All the time we are with your friends all the time, we are with your friends all the time. We are going to protect religious liberty, rebuild our military and we are going to rebuild our military and we are going to rebuild our military and we are going to finally take care of our veterans. Finally, take care of our veterans.
Finally, take care of our veterans properly our veterans, properly our veterans, properly our veterans. Our veterans have been very mistreated. Our veterans have been very mistreated. Our veterans have been very mistreated and I want to thank them for the - and I want to thank them for the - and I want to thank them for the tremendous support and the military, the tremendous support and the military, the tremendous support and the military.
The tremendous support I get, they do polls, tremendous support. I get - they do polls, tremendous support. I get - they do polls and it's like - forget it, it's like I'm - and it's like - forget it, it's like I'm - and it's like forget it, it's like I'm not running against anybody and our law not running against anybody and our law not running against anybody.
And our law enforcement has been so great. They've - enforcement has been so great. They've - enforcement has been so great. They've been good. We're going to provide school been good. We're going to provide school been good. We're going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core choice and put an end to Common Core choice and put an end to Common Core.
We're bringing our education local and we're bringing our education local and we're bringing our education local and we will support the men and women of law. We will support the men and women of law. We will support the men and women of law enforcement enforcement enforcement great people and save our Second great people and save our Second great people and save our Second Amendment, which is under siege and Amendment, which is under siege and Amendment, which is under siege and appoint Justices to the United States appoint justices to the United States, appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend Supreme Court who will uphold and defend Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
The Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the United States, think of this - I started on June 16th. Think of this - I started on June 16th. Think of this. I started on June 16th, long time ago from way back. Can you long time ago from way back, can you long time ago from way back, can you imagine this?
And now I can say you have imagine this and now I can say you have imagine this and now I can say you have one day, but it's no longer one day, it's one day, but it's no longer one day, it's one day, but it's no longer One day it's like just like tomorrow morning who is like just like tomorrow morning who is like just like tomorrow morning who is going to vote tomorrow morning.
Please. I promise you this. I will never ever let I promise you this. I will never ever let I promise you this. I will never ever let you down. I promise you that I didn't you down. I promise you that I didn't you down. I promise you that I didn't need to do this. You know, I built a great need to do this.
You know, I built a great need to do this. You know, I built a great company, one of the great companies, great company, one of the great companies, great company, one of the great companies, great, great. Some of the great real estate, great, some of the great real estate, great some of the great real estate assets in the world.
I enjoyed my life assets in the world. I enjoyed my life assets in the world. I enjoyed my life and I was on the other side, you know, I'm and I was on the other side, you know, I'm and I was on the other side, you know, I'm criticizing the other side because I criticizing the other side because I criticizing the other Side, because I understand the other side as well as understand the other side as well as understand the other side as well as anybody.
But our country was in trouble. Anybody but our country was in trouble. Anybody - but our country was in trouble and I love our country and I looked at and I love our country and I looked at and I love our country and I looked at what was happening and I'm really happy what was happening. And I'm really happy what was happening and I'm really happy.
I did this. I'm really happy. I did this. I did this. I'm really happy. I did this. I did this. I'm really happy. I did this. It's been an amazing experience and we - it's been an amazing experience and we - it's been an amazing experience and we are indeed going to make our country are indeed going to make our country are indeed going to make our country great.
Again. You have one day to make great again, you have one day to make great again. You have one day to make every dream you ever dreamed for your every dream you ever dreamed for your every dream you ever dreamed for your country and your family come true. You country and your family come true, you country and your family come true.
You have one magnificent chance to beat this, have one magnificent chance to beat this, have one magnificent chance to beat this corrupt system and deliver justice for. Corrupt system and deliver justice for corrupt system and deliver justice for every forgotten man for every forgotten, every forgotten man for every forgotten, every forgotten man for every forgotten woman and for every forgotten child in woman and for every forgotten child in woman and for every forgotten Child in this nation do not let this opportunity this nation do not let this opportunity this nation do not let this opportunity slip away.
Folks, it's never going to slip away folks. It's never going to slip away. Folks. It's never going to happen again, never going to happen in happen again, never going to happen in happen again, never going to happen in four years from now, never going to four years from now, never going to four years from now, never going to happen again.
And people are voting that happen again and people are voting that happen again and people are voting that they never saw before. These are great. They never saw before. These are great. They never saw before. These are great people, but they never saw anybody they people, but they never saw anybody they people, but they never saw anybody they wanted.
They're voting in numbers like wanted. They're voting in numbers like wanted. They're voting in numbers like they've never seen in Texas. In Florida. They've never seen in Texas, in Florida, they've never seen in Texas, in Florida, no matter where you look, they're voting no matter where you look, they're voting no matter where you look, they're voting in numbers like they've never seen in numbers like they've never seen in numbers Like they've never seen before, we are fighting for every citizen before we are fighting for every citizen before we are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should - who believes that government should - who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not serve.
The people not the donors and not serve the people, not the donors and not with a special interest. And we are with a special interest and we are with a special interest and we are fighting to bring us all together as fighting to bring us all together. As fighting to bring us all together as Americans, Americans, Americans just imagine what our country could just imagine what our country could just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working accomplish.
If we started working accomplish, if we started working together as one people under one God together as one people under one God together as one people under one God saluting one American flag, saluting one American flag, saluting one American flag. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody such a great honor.
Thank you everybody such a great honor. Thank you everybody such a great honor, credible people. You're incredible people, credible people, you're incredible people, credible people, you're incredible people. I'm asking you to dream because with I'm asking you to dream because with I'm asking you to dream because with your vote we are just one day away from your vote.
We are just one day away from your vote. We are just one day away from the change you've been waiting for your - the change you've been waiting for your - the change you've been waiting for your entire life. Don't the people in all of entire life don't the people in all of entire life, don't the people in all of our cities and towns.
I say these words, our cities and towns. I say these words, our cities and towns. I say these words to you tonight to you tonight to you tonight. I am with you. I will fight for you and I - I am with you. I will fight for you and I - I am with you. I will fight for you and I will win for you together. We will make America wealthy together.
We will make America wealthy together. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. Again, we will make America strong again. Again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again and we - we will make America safe again and we - we will make America safe again and we will make America great.