Donald Trump|Remarks: Donald Trump Meets With Law Enforcement Personnel in El Paso, Texas|August 7, 2019
Well, I just want to thank you. We've done some stops today. We went to Ohio and we just went to a hospital. And they've done an incredible -- just an incredible job. And we were there for a long time. We thought it would be there for a little time. But the love in that place, and the job that the doctors, nurses -- everybody.
But all over the world, they're talking about the job you've done as police, as law enforcement, as first responders. The job you've done is incredible, and everybody is talking about it. And I wanted to come and thank you because you're very special people. Nobody like you. There's nobody better.
There's nobody like you. And, Chief, I want to thank you.
Thank you, Mr. President.
What a reputation you have -- meaning, good. You know that. Meaning, good. [Laughter]
I hope so.
But what a reputation -- like a winner. And you showed it this last week, because that was something we don't want to have to see again. And I know he went out as a coward. He gave up. He just gave up. So explain what happened exactly.
Well, when confronted by law enforcement, he saw that he didn't have the courage to confront the law enforcement in a deadly-force manner. He gave himself up. We'll be introducing you to some of the officers that [Inaudible].
I'd like that. Very good. Very good.
And all these people in this room gathered about right now contributed to the success of this successful conclusion in bringing him to justice, as far as his arrest.
Well, that's great. And we have the governor here -- our great governor, Greg. Thank you very much. And, Dan, we have -- Dan Patrick, Lieutenant Governor. And we have a man -- where's John? We have a man who is very important. Thirty-eight years old. Thirty-eight. John, do the job. Do the -- come on up here, John.
Yes, sir.
We're counting on you, John, to do the job. Right?
Of course.
We have no doubt. We have no doubt. But we want to thank everybody, and your -- your people are special. I know all over the world, they're talking about the job you did. This is really something. Thank you very much, Chief. [Trump and Allen meet with law enforcement personnel]
Let me introduce you to the city manager of El Paso. [Inaudible]
You know I just left. We made a speech here about three months ago.
That's right.
So it's a good feeling. You know that, right? [Laughter]
This is Mario D'Agostino, the fire chief. Emmerson Buie, my counterpart in the FBI.
[Inaudible]
Yes, please.
[Donald Trump is introduced to personnel at the regional communications center. He is too distant to be recorded for part of the time. Various members of the media are recorded]
One thing unique about the Texas Ranger badge [Inaudible]
Oh, that's good. [Laughter]
[Inaudible, press moved away from introductions.]
First officer on the scene [Inaudible]
[Inaudible, press tries to get closer.]
And this is a rookie officer [Inaudible] on the job. He also went in with no hesitation. This is, uh, these two officers are detectives in the homicide unit. They are actually interviewing the suspect.
[Inaudible]
And this is the [Inaudible] who cuffed the individual, Sergio Martinez.
It's an honor.
It's my honor. It's my honor. Thank you very much. Thanks Sergio. Appreciate it. Fantastic people. Fantastic. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it very much.
And you know these --
Oh, I know. These people I know.
You believe these heroes?
[Inaudible] We appreciate it .
[Donald Trump meets with personnel, mostly inaudible]
Sir, this is 17 of the 140 plus Customs and Border Protection officers who made [Inaudible] to assist the El Paso P.D. I'd like to introduce you -- So this is Assistant Director of Field Operations. He served as officer in command of [Inaudible]
Mr. President.
You did a good a good job right.
He did a fantastic job.
He's the greatest.
Nice to meet you.
Mr. President [Inaudible] She was the officer inside the Wal-Mart. She's the one that the hospital said -- she -- the action ``
She saved the one gentleman.
Yes sir.
I saw you on television the other night. [Inaudible] You saved him. You did a good job. You did exactly what you [Inaudible]
Thank you sir.
Thank you very much. Great job.
This is Officer Rodriguez. She was one of the first officers on the scene. She actually joined forces with EPS and actually made entry into the Wal-Mart just in case there was additional threats there.
So you didn't know exactly what was going on? You went in there --
Yes. We were completely -- We went in completely blinded.
In addition to that, she actually -- one of the victims was her uncle.
My uncle passed away, unfortunately. My cousin, he's in ICU at the moment, still fighting for his life.
Did you know that at the time when you were going in? Did you have any idea that they were there?
No, I -- I didn't hesitate to respond to the call. I actually, after her call, not expecting to have any relatives involved in the shooting. So --
But you knew immediately this was like the real deal. This was just -- you could tell there were bullets and this was a bad scene.
Absolutely sir.
It didn't take long.
No, we could here it coming right away.
Do you want your book signed?
I would love to have this book signed.
Oh, come on, let's go.
[Inaudible]
Let's do it.
If you could just sign right here.
I'll do it right here. Give me one of those specials pens. Give me one of those pens. Give me one of them, yeah. One for you, not for me. This is fine. Thank you darling. [Inaudible] Thank you very much.
Hi. [Inaudible] We're honored [Inaudible]
Well, you've grown up nicely. That's beautiful. That's your boy. So that was just recently. Good looking guy. Is that what he wants to do.
Yes sir. Marine Corps.
He's beautiful. What's his first name.
Frankie, or Frank.
Y or -ie.
-ie. He's beautiful. He's great.
[Inaudible]
Yeah, what was that. Was that a photo bomb? Say hello to him. Thank you man. [Inaudible]
Nice to meet you.
Sir, so this is Agent [Inaudible]. So he responded instantaneously, and he really coordinated the 140 personnel -- our VORTAC, our tactical team, our medical team, our peer support, our air support, and he went to the incident command and he really coordinated that on behalf of CBP.
Great job.
Thank you sir.
It was perfect coordination.
Appreciate it.
They're all talking about it. All over the world, they're all talking about the job you're doing.
[Inaudible]
Fantastic job.
And sir, the rest of these individuals, again they provided the tactical support, the medical support, the peer support, and air support. Again, they were 17 of the 140 personnel from CBP that responded.
Who's gonna -- who's going to mess around with these people?
I don't think anybody sir.
Thank you. Thank you Mr. President.
Thank you very much. It's my honor. Thank you very much. [Shakes hands] Yes. They work together well. They work together well. [Inaudible] How are you. Thank you very much.
So I want to just thank everybody again.
The job you've done is incredible. And we're with you all the way. We -- I can tell you, we've sent you a lot of equipment over the last two and half years -- getting close to three years, hard to believe. But a lot of equipment came your way. A lot of equipment that wasn't being used came your way -- the military equipment that you have that wasn't going to be distributed for some reason.
Someday, somebody will explain why. But that was the way it was. But it was a lot different. And you deserve it. But we are with you 100 percent. And the Chief knows: Any problems, he just calls me and I'm there. You know that, right?