Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Cleveland, OH|October 22, 2016

Thank you to the people of Cleveland for thank you to the people of Cleveland for thank you to the people of Cleveland for hosting our great convention. Thank you. Hosting our great convention. Thank you. Hosting our great convention. Thank you very much. This is such a great honor and very much this is such a great honor and very much this is such a great honor and to be back to be back to be back, we had an awfully good time.
The last we had an awfully good time. The last we had an awfully good time. The last time you remember write a thing called time. You remember write a thing called time. You remember write a thing called the Republican National Convention and the Republican National Convention and the Republican National Convention.
And it was great special and I want to thank it was great special and I want to thank it was great special and I want to thank Patrick Park and Ray Park. They own this Patrick Park and Ray Park. They own this Patrick Park and Ray Park. They own this building, they do such a great job. It's building. They do such a great job.
It's building, they do such a great job, it's incredible and it's an honor. They kept incredible and it's an honor. They kept incredible and it's an honor they kept moving. The walls out, they just said moving the walls out, they just said moving the walls out, they just said, could we make it bigger, bigger, bigger?
Could we make it bigger, bigger, bigger? Could we make it bigger, bigger, bigger, but we have some great crowds. And I just - but we have some great crowds and I just - but we have some great crowds and I just want to thank everybody special Ohio is want to thank everybody. Special Ohio is want to thank everybody.
Special Ohio is a special place and Cleveland is a a special place and Cleveland is a a special place and Cleveland is a special place and always will be to me. And I want to thank our future vice and I want to thank our future vice and I want to thank our future vice president, Mike Pence and Karen, what a president, Mike Pence and Karen, what a president, Mike Pence and Karen, what a job they've done.
It's a great team, it's job they've done. It's a great team. It's job they've done. It's a great team. It's really a team, but they have been really a team, but they have been really a team, but they have been spectacular and it's an honor to be spectacular and it's an honor to be spectacular and it's an honor to be working with them.
And I have to tell you, working with them and I have to tell you, working with them and I have to tell you, I love those pink. Let me see that women, I love those pink. Let me see that women, I love those pink. Let me see that women for trouble, those are my favorite for trouble. Those are my favorite for trouble.
Those are my favorite. Those are my folder, oh, we're gonna do. So those are my folder, oh, we're gonna do. So those are my folder, oh, we're gonna do so well with the women. It's crazy wait'll well with the women. It's crazy wait'll well with the women, it's crazy wait'll those numbers come out of November on those numbers come out of November on those numbers come out of November on November 8th, November 8th, November 8th, wait'll.
Those numbers come out in 17. Wait'll those numbers come out in 17, wait'll those numbers come out in 17 days. We are going to win the great state days. We are going to win the great state days. We are going to win the great state of Ohio and we are going to win the of Ohio and we are going to win the of Ohio and we are going to win the White House.
Early voting is underway. So White House early voting is underway. So White House early voting is underway, so make sure you get that ballot out, make sure you get that ballot out, make sure you get that ballot out. Otherwise this whole movement honestly, otherwise this whole movement honestly. Otherwise, this whole movement honestly we will have pretty much wasted a lot of - we will have pretty much wasted a lot of - we will have pretty much wasted a lot of time and energy now me, it would have time and energy now me, it would have time And energy now me, it would have been time, energy and I guess by the time been time, energy and I guess by the time been time, energy and I guess by the time I'm finished over a hundred million, I'm finished over a hundred million.
I'm finished over a hundred million dollars, that's a lot of money, but we dollars that's a lot of money, but we dollars that's a lot of money. But we have something that's so special that I have something that's so special that I have something that's so special that I don't think there's a chance they can - don't think there's a chance they can don't think there's a chance they can take it away from us.
We're gonna win, take it away from us. We're gonna win, take it away from us. We're gonna win. We're gonna win November 8th. We're gonna win November 8th. We're gonna win November 8th and together we're going to deliver real and together we're going to deliver real and together we're going to deliver real change that once again puts America change that once again puts America change that once again puts America first as an example.
This used to be a great - as an example, this used to be a great - as an example, this used to be a great plant, thousands and thousands of people plant thousands and thousands of people plant thousands and thousands of people worked here and they left so many People worked here and they left so many people worked here and they left so many people are leaving.
So many people are closing, are leaving. So many people are closing, are leaving. So many people are closing their businesses and moving to Mexico, their businesses and moving to Mexico, their businesses and moving to Mexico and other countries, not gonna happen and other countries not gonna happen and other countries not gonna happen anymore.
We're gonna tell you why, but not anymore. We're gonna tell you why, but not anymore. We're gonna tell you why, but not gonna happen anymore. Gon na happen anymore, gonna happen anymore. Earlier today I outlined my contract earlier today. I outlined my contract earlier today. I outlined my contract with the American voter, a detailed list with the American voter, a detailed list with the American voter.
A detailed list of solutions to make your life richer of solutions to make your life richer of solutions to make your life richer and better. One of the issues I addressed and better one of the issues I addressed and better one of the issues I addressed at length is the issue of government at length is the issue of government at length is the issue of government corruption.
I talked about the inside corruption. I talked about the inside corruption I talked about the inside dealing, the powerful, protecting the dealing, the powerful, protecting the dealing, the powerful, protecting the powerful and about special interests and powerful and about special interests and powerful and about special interests.
And donors who've rigged the system, the donors who've rigged the system, the donors who've rigged the system, the system is rigged, you know it, I know it system is rigged. You know it. I know it system is rigged. You know it. I know it - the politicians know it, the media people, the politicians know it, the media people, the politicians know it, the media people know it, they all know it, know it, they all know it, know it, they all know it.
I've talked about the corrupt career. I've talked about the corrupt career, I've talked about the corrupt career lifetime politicians like Hillary lifetime politicians like Hillary lifetime politicians like Hillary Clinton, selling her office for personal Clinton, selling her office for personal Clinton, selling her office for personal enrichment than you've seen how that's enrichment Than you've seen how that's enrichment than you've seen how that's going.
I've got news for all of the going. I've got news for all of the going. I've got news for all of the people taking advantage of our rigged people, taking advantage of our rigged people, taking advantage of our rigged system in 17 days, everything is going to system in 17 days, everything is going to system in 17 days.
Everything is going to change, change change in 17 days. We are going to drain the in 17 days. We are going to drain the in 17 days. We are going to drain the swamp of corruption in Washington DC. We are going to renegotiate our terrible, we are going to renegotiate our terrible, we are going to renegotiate our terrible trade deals and illegal immigration, stop trade deals and illegal immigration, stop trade deals and illegal immigration stop the massive inflow of refugees coming.
The massive inflow of refugees coming, the massive inflow of refugees coming from the Middle East, reduce surging from the Middle East, reduce surging from the Middle East, reduce surging crimes, cut taxes and regulations, unleash crimes, cut taxes and regulations, unleash crimes, cut taxes and regulations, unleash American Energy, including shale oil, American energy including shale oil, American energy including shale oil, natural gas and beautiful clean coal.
We're gonna put those miners back to - we're gonna put those miners back to we're gonna put those miners back to work. We will rebuild our military and work, we will rebuild our military and work. We will rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans and that take care of our great veterans and that take care of our great veterans.
And that means new aircraft for wright-patterson means new aircraft for wright-patterson means new aircraft for wright-patterson Air Force Base right here in Ohio. We will also repeal and replace the - we will also repeal and replace the - we will also repeal and replace the total disaster known as Obamacare.
Health insurance premiums are going, health insurance premiums are going, health insurance premiums are going through the roof, led by Obamacare and through the roof led by Obamacare and through the roof led by Obamacare. And companies are being driven out of companies are being driven out of companies are being driven out of business.
They're leaving our country business. They're leaving our country business. They're leaving our country over the cost of health care. It is a over the cost of health care. It is a - over the cost of health care, it is a total disaster. Many companies are being total disaster. Many companies are being total disaster.
Many companies are being forced to flee, fire. Everybody flee go to forced to flee fire. Everybody flee go to forced to flee, fire. Everybody flee go to another country. We're going to stop it another country. We're going to stop it another country. We're going to stop it day one and Hillary Clinton wants to day one and Hillary Clinton wants to day one.
And Hillary Clinton wants to double down and make Obamacare bigger double down and make Obamacare bigger double down and make Obamacare bigger and even worse just this month. The Democratic governor just this month, the Democratic governor just this month, the Democratic governor of Minnesota admitted the reality is the of Minnesota admitted.
The reality is the of Minnesota admitted. The reality is the Affordable Care Act, he said is no longer Affordable Care Act. He said is no longer Affordable Care Act, he said is no longer affordable. He said that and you probably affordable, he said that and you probably affordable, he said that and you probably saw last week Bill Clinton called saw last week, Bill Clinton called saw last week.
Bill Clinton called Obamacare, the craziest thing in the Obamacare, the craziest thing in the Obamacare, the craziest thing in the world world world. He said that small businesses and he said that small businesses and he said that small businesses and middle-class Americans are getting, middle-class Americans are getting, middle-class Americans are getting killed.
He then went home and he got killed, he then went home and he got killed. He then went home and he got killed, he tried taking it back, the next killed, he tried taking it back, the next killed he tried taking it back the next day. He did not have the same enthusiasm day. He did not have the same enthusiasm day.
He did not have the same enthusiasm. He was - he had a rough evening. That was a - he was - he had a rough evening that was a - he was - he had a rough evening that was a tough favor. But look, whether you are tough favor, but look whether you are tough favor, but look whether you are Hillary Clinton or anybody else, Hillary Clinton or anybody else, Hillary Clinton or anybody else, Obamacare is a disaster.
Premiums are Obamacare is a disaster, premiums are Obamacare is a disaster, premiums are going up 60, 70, 80, 90 % next year it's going up 60, 70, 80, 90 %. Next year it's going up 60, 70, 80, 90 %. Next year it's going to be worse. You know at a certain going to be worse, you know, at a certain going to be worse, you know, at a certain point and it's lousy health care, it's point and it's lousy.
Health care, it's point and it's lousy. Health care, it's terrible, terrible, terrible. The deductibles are so high, I mean you - the deductibles are so high. I mean you - the deductibles are so high. I mean, you don't want to use it anyway, but if you don't want to use it anyway, but if you don't want to use it anyway, but if you need it, you'll never get to use it, need it.
You'll never get to use it, need it. You'll never get to use it because the deductibles have gotten so because the deductibles have gotten so because the deductibles have gotten so high. So it's a horror show we're going high. So it's a horror show we're going high. So it's a horror show we're going to repeal it and replace it.
And this is our chance to get rid of. And this is our chance to get rid of and this is our chance to get rid of this law, but we're going to approve and this law, but we're going to approve and this law, but we're going to approve and get something that is so much less Get something that is so much less, get something that is so much less expensive and so good, a great health, expensive and so good, a great health, expensive and so good, a great health care system, a system that you deserve care system, a system that you deserve Care system, a system that you deserve, that's what we're going to be doing and that's what we're going to be doing and that's what we're going to be doing.
And that's one of many things folks we have, that's one of many things folks we have. That's one of many things, folks we have so many things we can stand here for two, so many things we can stand here for two. So many things we can stand here for two days and just talk, but we're gonna go days and just talk, but we're gonna go days and just talk, but we're gonna go over a lot of them among our reforms is he one of the People paid for by the - is he one of the people paid for by the - is he one of the people paid for by the Democrats and the Clinton campaign that Democrats and the Clinton campaign that Democrats and the Clinton campaign that you paid get out of here Get out out, get you paid, get out of here, get out out, get you paid, get out of here, get out out, get out.
Did you read that the other day they did you read that the other day they did you read that the other day they paid $ 1,500, their violence, they want to paid $ 1,500, their violence, they want to paid $ 1,500, their violence, they want to have Violence and everybody blamed it in have violence and everybody blamed it in, have violence and everybody blamed it in me.
And now they're saying, guess what me - and now they're saying, guess what me - and now they're saying, guess what Trump was actually innocent. Trump was actually innocent. Trump was actually innocent, unbelievable, unbelievable among our unbelievable, unbelievable among our unbelievable, unbelievable among our reforms will be to cut the red tape at reforms will be to cut the red tape at reforms will be to cut the red tape at the FDA and speed the approval Of the FDA and speed the approval of the FDA and speed the approval of life-saving drugs, your jobs will come life-saving drugs.
Your jobs will come life-saving drugs. Your jobs will come back under a trump administration, your back under a trump administration your back under a trump administration, your incomes will go up under a trump incomes will go up under a trump incomes will go up under a trump administration. Your taxes will go way administration, your taxes will go way administration, your taxes will go way down under a trump administration and down under a trump administration and down under a trump administration and she's going to raise your taxes, your - she's going to raise your taxes, your - She's going to raise your taxes.
Your companies won't be leaving. Ohio under a companies won't be leaving. Ohio under a companies won't be leaving Ohio under a trump administration. They won't be going trump administration. They won't be going trump administration. They won't be going. Believe me to another country where believe me to another country where believe me to another country where they're offered a little bit better deal, they're offered a little bit better deal.
They're offered a little bit better deal. You'll be proud of your leaders once you'll be proud of your leaders once you'll be proud of your leaders once again. Now WikiLeaks shows us that John again. Now WikiLeaks shows us that John again. Now WikiLeaks shows us that John Podesta said Hillary Clinton has bad.
Podesta said, Hillary Clinton has bad Podesta said Hillary Clinton has bad instance. Bernie Sanders said she has bad instance. Bernie Sanders said she has bad instance. Bernie Sanders said she has bad judgment. What are we doing folks, these judgment, what are we doing folks these judgment, what are we doing, folks, these people work with her, what are we doing, people work with her, what are we doing, people work with her, what are we doing?
One of her closest allies said she - one of her closest allies, said she - one of her closest allies said she doesn't seem to know what planet. We're doesn't seem to know what planet. We're doesn't seem to know what planet we're all living in. This is her allies saying all living in, this is her allies saying all living in.
This is her allies saying the emails also show her staff saying the emails also show her staff saying the emails also show her staff saying she has no core. She has no core, she has no core, she has no core, that's because she just - she has no core, that's because she just - she has no core, that's because she just does whatever her donors and special does whatever her donors and special does, whatever her donors and Special interests want her to do.
We're not too happy with her. I will tell we're not too happy with her. I will tell we're not too happy with her. I will tell you look, it's a rigged system, that's how you look. It's a rigged system. That's how you look. It's a rigged system, that's how she got to run. It's a rigged system. The - she got to run, it's a rigged system.
The - she got to run, it's a rigged system. The whole entire purpose of her campaign is whole entire purpose of her campaign is whole entire purpose of her campaign is to keep our system rigged and to stop to keep our system rigged and to stop to keep our system rigged and to stop change from happening.
At any cost and we change from happening at any cost and we change from happening at any cost and we need change, we are about change need change, we are about change need change, we are about change, she is about keeping it the way it is. She is about keeping it the way it is. She is about keeping it the way it is and we don't want to have four more and we don't want to have four more.
And we don't want to have four more years of Obama that we can tell you just years of Obama that we can tell you just years of Obama that we can tell you just take a look at her record, take a look at her record, take a Look at her record, she's - they'd been there. Think of this. She's - they'd been there.
Think of this, she's - they'd been there. Think of this, she's been there for 30 years and hasn't - she's been there for 30 years and hasn't - she's been there for 30 years and hasn't fixed anything fixed, anything fixed, anything? She's Unleashed death destruction and she's Unleashed death destruction and she's Unleashed death destruction and failure in every country.
She touched in failure in every country. She touched in failure in every country. She touched in the Middle East, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Iran, the Middle East, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Iran, the Middle East, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Iran, Hillary's, catastrophic failures, Hillary's catastrophic failures, Hillary's catastrophic failures, unleashed Isis, right.
The great vacuum unleashed Isis right, the great vacuum unleashed Isis right, the great vacuum that she and Obama created, which is now that she and Obama created, which is now that she and Obama created, which is now on a campaign of genocide against on a campaign of Genocide against on a campaign of genocide against Christians in the Middle East and all Christians in the Middle East and all Christians in the Middle East and all over the world.
They're in 32 countries over the world. They're in 32 countries over the world. They're in 32 countries when they started during her tenure as when they started during her tenure as when they started during her tenure as Secretary of State, when they started Secretary of State when they started Secretary of State when they started, they started as a little group.
Remember, they started as a little group. Remember, they started as a little group. Remember, the JV Obama called them the JV. They're the JV, Obama called them the JV. They're the JV, Obama called them the JV. They're now in 32 countries. And now I watch as now in 32 countries and now I watch as now in 32 countries.
And now I watch as Hillary Clinton says, I'm going to stop. Hillary Clinton says I'm going to stop. Hillary Clinton says I'm going to stop Isis. Why didn't she stop? It in the first Isis, why didn't she stop it in the first Isis? Why didn't she stop it in the first place place place? Why did she let it start?
When will she take responsibility for when will she take responsibility for when will she take responsibility for all of the death and suffering and all of the death and suffering and all of the death and suffering and bloodshed she caused all around the bloodshed. She caused all around the bloodshed. She caused all around the world.
Look at what she's done. When will world look at what she's done, when will world look at what she's done? When will she? Apologize for all of the people her. She apologize for all of the people her, she apologize for all of the people. Her decisions have gotten killed at home. She decisions have gotten killed at home.
She decisions have gotten killed at home. She failed on the economy and she failed in failed on the economy. And she failed in failed on the economy and she failed in upstate New York. She said in the Senate, upstate New York, she said in the Senate, upstate New York, she said in the Senate, she's going to bring jobs, elect me, guess, she's going to bring jobs, elect me, guess, she's going to bring jobs, elect me, guess what the place emptied Out companies what the place emptied out companies, what the place emptied out, companies like Carrie are firing their workers and like Carrie are firing their workers and like Carrie are firing their workers and moving to Mexico.
Floored is moving all moving to Mexico. Floored is moving all moving to Mexico. Floored is moving all of its small car production to Mexico of its small car production to Mexico of its small car production to Mexico, who knows better than Cleveland, what's - who knows better than Cleveland? What's - who knows better than Cleveland?
What's going on, who knows, look at this place, going on, who knows, look at this place, going on, who knows, look at this place who knows better than Cleveland and who knows better than Cleveland and who knows better than Cleveland and right next door, you're losing another Right next door, you're losing another right next door.
You're losing another big monster and they're moving to Mexico, big monster and they're moving to Mexico, big monster and they're moving to Mexico. I hope you know that, but they're moving. I hope you know that. But they're moving. I hope you know that, but they're moving to Mexico, we're gonna stop it folks to Mexico.
We're gonna stop it folks to Mexico. We're gonna stop it folks. We're gonna stop it dead in its tracks. When I'm president, if companies want to - when I'm president, if companies want to - when I'm president, if companies want to fire their workers and leave for Mexico, fire their workers and leave for Mexico, fire their workers and leave for Mexico or some other place, then we will Charge or some other place then we will charge or some other place, then we will charge them a 35 % tax when they want to ship them a 35 % tax when they want to ship them a 35 % tax when they want to ship their products Back into the United, their products back into the United, their products back into the United States and when they hear that they're not.
And when they hear that they're not. And when they hear that they're not moving now, they may move to another moving. Now. They may move to another moving now. They may move to another state that's different, right? You got to state that's different, right? You got to state that's different, right? You got to fight for your own right, but they're not fight for your own right, but they're not fight for your own right.
But they're not moving to these other countries and moving to these other countries and moving to these other countries and firing all of their people, you have to firing all of their people. You have to firing all of their people. You have to see the numbers. We've lost 77 thousand, see the numbers. We've lost 77 thousand, see the numbers.
We've lost 77 thousand factories, 77 thousand Hillary Clinton factories, 77 thousand Hillary Clinton factories, 77 thousand Hillary Clinton has raised countless millions of dollars, has raised countless millions of dollars, has raised countless millions of dollars from big donors who want to ship our from big donors who Want to ship our from big donors who want to ship our jobs to these other countries, the system jobs to these other countries, the system jobs to these other countries, the system is rigged and the best evidence of that is rigged.
And the best evidence of that is rigged and the best evidence of that is that Hillary Clinton is even allowed is that Hillary Clinton is even allowed - is that Hillary Clinton is even allowed to run for the office of president in - to run for the office of President in - to run for the office of president in the first place, she lied to Congress.
Under oath, she lied, she lied to Congress under oath, she lied. She lied to Congress under oath, she lied to the FBI and she made 13 phones to the FBI and she made 13 phones to the FBI and she made 13 phones disappear. Many of them by whacking them disappear many of them by whacking them disappear many of them by whacking them with a hammer.
How many people have made your phones, how many people have made your phones, how many people have made your phones disappear and whack them out with a disappear and whack them out with a disappear and whack them out with a hammer hammer hammer, anybody here? Oh no. Here's a guy right up anybody here. Oh, no, here's a guy right up anybody here.
Oh, no, here's a guy right up here, sir here. Sir here. Sir, what business are you in? I don't want to - what business are you in? I don't want to - what business are you in? I don't want to know she bleached and deleted 33,000 know she bleached and deleted 33,000 know she bleached and deleted 33,000 emails and then two crucial boxes of emails and then two crucial boxes of emails and then two crucial boxes of email evidence is now mysteriously email Evidence is now mysteriously email evidence is now mysteriously missing two weeks ago.
Her actions with her illegal server have her actions with her illegal server. Have her actions with her illegal server have put every single American family at risk, put every single American family at risk put every single American family at risk. She is the most corrupt person ever to. She is the most corrupt person ever to.
She is the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency of the United States. Her career embodies what the American her career embodies what the American her career embodies what the American people love about corrupt self-serving. People love about corrupt self-serving. People love about corrupt self-serving establishment that has stripped this establishment that has stripped this establishment that has stripped this country of its jobs, its wealth and its country of its jobs, its wealth and its country of its jobs, its wealth and its opportunity and Wigga to turn It around opportunity and Wigga to turn it around opportunity and Wigga to turn it around and we're really going to turn it around and we're really going to turn it around and we're really going to turn it around.
That's not just words her campaign even that's not just words her campaign even that's not just words her campaign, even mocks, Catholics and evangelicals, who is mocks, Catholics and evangelicals, who is mocks Catholics and evangelicals, who is Catholic. In this room. I know you're not voting for who is - I know you're not voting for who is - I know you're not voting for who is evangelical in this road, whoa?
She's in evangelical in this road, whoa? She's in evangelical in this road, whoa, she's in trouble. I know you're not voting for him trouble. I know you're not voting for him trouble. I know you're not voting for him and she smears police officers as and she smears police officers as and she smears police officers as essentially racist and she smears all of essentially racist and she smears all of essentially racist and she smears all of you as deplorable.
And irredeemable, she eagerly takes millions of dollars. She eagerly takes millions of dollars. She eagerly takes millions of dollars from countries that murder and oppress from countries that murder and oppress from countries that murder and oppress, women, gays and people of different women gays and people of different women gays and people of different faiths and refuses.
To give all of that faiths and refuses to give all of that faiths and refuses to give all of that money back. In fact, I brought that up in money back. In fact I brought that up in money back. In fact, I brought that up in the debate by the way, how badly did we - the debate by the way, how badly did we - the debate by the way how badly did we beat her in the debate?
That wasn't a close one. We will defend. That wasn't a close one. We will defend that wasn't a close one. We will defend religious liberty and we will defend the religious liberty and we will defend the religious liberty and we will defend the rights of all people then then then then rights of all people.
Then then then then rights of all people. Then then then then there is the issue that everybody says there is the issue that everybody says there is the issue that everybody says, oh, oh, it doesn't take place are these, oh, oh, it doesn't take place, are these, oh, oh! It doesn't take place. Are these people playing games with us, right?
Oh! It - people playing games with us, right? Oh! It - people playing games with us, right? Oh, it doesn't take place. These are the people doesn't take place. These are the people doesn't take place. These are the people that negotiate our trade deals. These are that negotiate our trade deals. These are that negotiate our trade deals.
These are the people that don't know what's going the people that don't know what's going the people that don't know what's going on in real life or these are the people on in real life or these are the people on in real life or these are the People that are just playing games with you that are just playing games with you that are just playing games with you.
There is the issue of voter fraud, is it there is the issue of voter fraud? Is it there is the issue of voter fraud? Is it amazing the way they say there's no amazing the way they say there's no amazing the way they say there's no voter from folks is a rigged system. And voter from folks is a rigged system and voter from folks is a rigged system.
And it's a rigged election, believe me, it's a rigged election. Believe me, it's a rigged election, believe me. According to the highly respected Pew, according to the highly respected Pew, according to the highly respected Pew, there are 24 million voter registrations. There are 24 million voter registrations.
There are 24 million voter registrations in the United States that are either in the United States that are either in the United States that are either invalid or significantly enacted but invalid or significantly enacted but invalid or significantly enacted. But right, 24 million bloc, there are 1.8, right, 24 million bloc, there are 1.8, right, 24 million bloc.
There are 1.8 million dead people that are registered million dead, people that are registered million dead, people that are registered right now to vote and folks spokes some right now to vote and folks spokes some right now to vote and folks spokes, some of them vote. I wonder why - I wonder how of them vote.
I wonder why - I wonder how of them vote. I wonder why - I wonder how that happened that happened that happened. They woke up from the dead and they went - they woke up from the dead and they went - they woke up from the dead and they went and voted. There are 2.8 million people and voted. There are 2.8 million people and voted.
There are 2.8 million people that are registered in more than one that are registered in more than one that are registered in more than one state. So we'll vote here, let's write state, so we'll vote here, let's write state. So we'll vote here. Let's write down the road, let's vote next, maybe the down the road, let's vote next, maybe the down the road, let's vote next, maybe the Buffett jump, I don't know, maybe I Buffett jump, I don't know, maybe I Buffett jump, I don't know, maybe I shouldn't be Saying I may be hurting, shouldn't be saying I may be hurting, shouldn't be saying I may be hurting myself, you're right, you're right, maybe they gonna vote for you're right, maybe they gonna vote for you're right, maybe they gonna vote for Trump.
Alright. Let's just forget that Trump, alright, let's just forget that Trump, alright, let's just forget that it's okay for them to do it. It's okay for them to do it. It's okay for them to do it. Fourteen percent of non-citizens are fourteen percent of non-citizens are fourteen percent of non-citizens are registered to vote.
The system is also registered to vote. The system is also registered to vote. The system is also rigged by the media, rigged by the media, rigged by the media WikiLeaks shows, WikiLeaks shows the media colluding and WikiLeaks shows the media colluding and WikiLeaks shows the media colluding and conspiring directly with the Clinton conspiring directly with the Clinton conspiring directly.
With the Clinton campaign emails even show that Clinton's campaign emails even show that Clinton's campaign emails even show that Clinton's boasting khlifa Lee about very friendly boasting khlifa Lee about very friendly boasting khlifa Lee about very friendly and malleable reporters who shower the and malleable reporters who Shower the and malleable reporters who shower the Clintons with praise, I know the people.
Clintons with praise, I know the people Clintons with praise. I know the people they're talking about to us, they're talking about to us, they're talking about to us, they're very dishonest for instance. They're very dishonest for instance. They're very dishonest for instance, those cameras. They'll never show these those cameras.
They'll never show these - those cameras. They'll never show these Krauts. They'll never show those Krauts. They'll never show those Krauts. They'll never show those. It's all rigged. But on November 8, we're - it's all rigged. But on November 8, we're - it's all rigged, but on November 8, we're going to show them and we're going to going to show them and we're going to going to show them and we're going to beat the system and we will end the corruption in and we Will end the corruption in and we will end the corruption in Washington.
We will make America great Washington. We will make America great Washington, we will make America great again. You watch, we're gonna also end economic stagnation. We're gonna also end economic stagnation. We're gonna also end economic stagnation in our country at the center of my jobs in our country, at the center of my jobs in our country, at the center of my jobs plan, we'll be fixing our terrible plan.
We'll be fixing our terrible plan. We'll be fixing our terrible, terrible, terrible trade deals. We have terrible, terrible trade deals. We have terrible, terrible trade deals. We have nearly an 800 billion dollar annual, nearly an 800 billion dollar annual, nearly an 800 billion dollar annual trade deficit with the world in other trade deficit with the world in other trade deficit with the world.
In other words, we deal with the world. We have a words we deal with the world, we have a words we deal with the world. We have a deficit of eight hundred billion dollars deficit of eight hundred billion dollars deficit of eight hundred billion dollars. You know, in the audience I have a lot of, you know, in the audience I have a lot of, you know, in the audience I have a lot of friends there from this area.
They're all friends there from this area. They're all friends there from this area. They're all great businesspeople. I could put any one great businesspeople. I could put any one great businesspeople. I could put any one of them in charge and we could do well of them in charge and we could do well of them in charge and we could do well.
But the people we have negotiating the - but the people we have negotiating the - but the people we have negotiating the biggest deals in the world are political, biggest deals in the world are political, biggest deals in the world are political hacks like the Iran deal, how bad Was the hacks like the Iran deal, how bad was the hacks like the Iran deal, how bad was the Iran deal?
How bad was that and how about when we - how bad was that and how about when we - how bad was that and how about when we gave them 400 million in cash? Forget the gave them 400 million in cash, forget the gave them 400 million in cash. Forget the 150 billion, we gave them 400 million, 150 billion, we gave them 400 million, 150 billion.
We gave them 400 million dollars in cash, but we were wrong. It was dollars in cash, but we were wrong. It was dollars in cash, but we were wrong. It was actually 1.7 billion in cash, you know actually 1.7 billion in cash, you know actually 1.7 billion in cash. You know what does it fill up the whole side of what does it fill up the whole side of what does it fill up the whole side of this room?
Also remember this is - and you this room also remember this is - and you this room also remember this is - and you don't hear that from these characters don't hear that from these characters don't hear that from these characters, this is the worst so-called recovery. This is the worst so-called recovery.
This is the worst so-called recovery that we've had in this country since the - that we've had in this country since the - that we've had in this country since the Great Depression, Ohio and just look at this building. But Ohio and just look at this building, but Ohio and just look at this building, but look at all the other buildings around, look at all the other buildings around, look at all the other buildings around it, it it.
Ohio has lost one in three of its Ohio has lost one in three of its Ohio has lost one in three of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Signed by Bill Clinton and supported by signed by Bill Clinton and supported by crooked Hillary Clinton, hillarie visit states like Ohio, hillarie visit states like Ohio, hillarie visit states like Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan.
Talks about Pennsylvania and Michigan talks about Pennsylvania and Michigan talks about jobs, but she's the one who killed the jobs, but she's the one who killed the jobs. But she's the one who killed the jobs in the first place. Why didn't she jobs in the first place? Why didn't she jobs in the first place?
Why didn't she do something about it? You probably saw do something about it. You probably saw do something about it. You probably saw in the debate she'd say, well, I want to in the debate she'd say, well, I want to in the debate she'd say, well, I want to do this. I want to do that. I want to do, do this.
I want to do that. I want to do - do this, I want to do that. I want to do this. I said, why didn't you do it? You've this, I said, why didn't you do it? You've this, I said, why didn't you do it? You've been there for 30 years. Why didn't you been there for 30 years? Why didn't you been there for 30 years?
Why didn't you do it? It's just talk do it, it's just talk do it, it's just talk, it's political talk, it's all talk, no, it's political talk, it's all talk. No, it's political talk, it's all talk, no action. It's like a bank robber visiting action. It's like a bank robber visiting action. It's like a bank robber visiting the scene of a crime.
We've lost seventy the scene of a crime. We've lost seventy the scene of a crime. We've lost seventy thousand factories since China's entry thousand factories since China's entry thousand factories since China's entry into the World Trade Organization you into the World Trade Organization you into the World Trade Organization.
You know, when I saw the 70,000 number know when I saw the 70,000 number know when I saw the 70,000 number, honestly, I thought it was a typo since honestly, I thought it was a typo since honestly, I thought it was a typo since 70,000. Thinking what 70,000 is, you know, 70,000 thinking what 70,000 is, you know 70,000 thinking what 70,000 is.
You know here we're talking four in this area here. We're talking four in this area here. We're talking four in this area, 70,000 throughout our country. I thought 70,000 throughout our country, I thought 70,000 throughout our country. I thought it was a type of - it's not a type of it was a type of - it's not a type of - it was a type of - it's not a type of we've lost seventy thousand factories.
We've lost seventy thousand factories, we've lost seventy thousand factories, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster. We're living through the greatest jobs we're living through the greatest jobs we're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world theft in the history of the world theft in the history of the world.
There's no other country that has ever - there's no other country that has ever - there's no other country that has ever been rated like our country has been been rated like our country has been been rated like our country has been rated of its jobs and its money. And its rated of its jobs and its money and its rated of its jobs and its money and its wealth we owe 20 trillion dollars.
It wealth we owe 20 trillion dollars. It wealth we owe 20 trillion dollars, it doubled. Think of it. It doubled in just doubled, think of it it doubled in just doubled. Think of it, it doubled in just eight years, it's really little less it eight years, it's really little less it eight years, it's really little less, it doubled, think of it a trump doubled, think of it a trump doubled, think of it a trump administration is going To renegotiate, administration is going to renegotiate, administration is going to renegotiate, NAFTA stand up too far and cheating and NAFTA stand up too far and cheating and NAFTA stand up too far and cheating and stop the jobs from leaving our country.
And we are going to stop currency and we are going to stop currency and we are going to stop currency manipulation. The number one game, they manipulation the number one game. They manipulation the number one game. They play, they're grandmasters, but we're play, they're grandmasters, but we're play, they're grandmasters, but we're gonna stop currency manipulation because gonna stop currency manipulation because gonna stop currency manipulation because that's cheating and our companies cannot, that's cheating and our companies cannot.
That's cheating. And our companies cannot compete with that. We are going to start compete with that. We are going to start compete with that. We are going to start making things again in America as part making things again in America as part making things again in America as part of our plan to bring back our jobs.
We're of our plan to bring back our jobs. We're of our plan to bring back our jobs. We're going to lower our business tax from 35 % going to lower our business tax from 35 % going to lower our business tax from 35 %, which is the highest anywhere in the - which is the highest anywhere in the - which is the highest anywhere in the World to 15 % which is among the lowest, we are also going to rebuild our inner.
We are also going to rebuild our inner. We are also going to rebuild our inner cities and you know about that cities and you know about that cities and you know about that african-americans and Hispanics living, african-americans and Hispanics living, african-americans and Hispanics living in the inner cities are suffering very in the inner cities Are suffering very in the inner cities are suffering very badly and very unfairly.
The violence is badly and very unfairly. The violence is badly and very unfairly. The violence is unbearable and unbelievable. You walk to unbearable and unbelievable you walk to unbearable and unbelievable you walk to the store with your child and you get the store with your child and you get the store with your child and you get shot.
There is no education, there are no shot. There is no education, there are no shot, there is no education, there are no jobs and there is no safety, nearly 3,500 jobs and there is no safety, nearly 3,500 jobs and there is no safety. Nearly 3,500 people have been shot in the city of people have been shot in the city of people have been shot in the city of Chicago since the beginning of the can Chicago since the beginning of the can Chicago since the beginning of the - can you believe That 3,500 people, that's you believe that 3,500 people, that's you believe that 3,500 people that's worse than these war zones, you're saying worse than these war zones.
You're saying worse than these war zones. You're saying homicides are up nearly 50 % in homicides are up nearly 50 % in homicides are up nearly 50 % in Washington DC and more than 60 % in Washington DC and more than 60 % in Washington DC and more than 60 % in Baltimore. And it's getting worse so to Baltimore and it's getting worse so to Baltimore and it's getting worse so to the african-american community and to the african-american community and to the african-american community and to the Hispanic community and voters, I say the Hispanic community and voters, I say The Hispanic community and voters, I say what do you have to lose vote for Donald?
What do you have to lose vote for Donald? What do you have to lose vote for Donald Trump? I will fix it. I will Trump, I will fix it. I will Trump. I will fix it, I will through through through so true, we will be a rich nation again, a so true we will be a rich nation again, a so true we will be a rich nation.
Again, a woman came up to me recently. She said woman came up to me recently. She said woman came up to me recently. She said mr. Trump, I love listening to you speak mr. Trump. I love listening to you speak mr. Trump. I love listening to you speak, but I hate it. When you say we will be, but I hate it when you say we will be, but I hate it when you say we will be rich again as a nation, I say - I'm sorry, rich.
Again as a nation, I say - I'm sorry, rich. Again. As a nation, I say I'm sorry, but if we're not gonna be rich again, but if we're not gonna be rich again, but if we're not gonna be rich again, we're gonna lose all of those things. We're gonna lose all of those things. We're gonna lose all of those things because I'm gonna save your Social because I'm gonna save your Social because I'm gonna save your Social Security with Hillary, she's gonna cut it Security with Hillary.
She's gonna cut it Security with Hillary, she's gonna cut it to pieces and we're leaving it the way to pieces and we're leaving it the way to pieces and we're leaving it the way it is because that was the contract you it is because that Was the contract you it is because that was the contract you made, but Hillary is going to cut it to made, but Hillary is going to cut it to made, but Hillary is going to cut it to pieces so many things.
So I said you're pieces. So many things, so I said you're pieces so many things. So I said you're look, I know it doesn't sound politically. Look, I know it doesn't sound politically. Look, I know it doesn't sound politically correct or nice, but we are going to be a correct or nice. But we are going to be a correct or nice, but we are going to be a rich nation again.
We have to be to do rich nation again. We have to be to do rich nation again. We have to be to do what we want to do because we have to what we want to do because we have to what we want to do because we have to build up our military. We have to do so, build up our military. We have to do so, build up our military, we have to do so many things, but to be rich nation, we many things, but to be rich nation, we many things, but to be rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.
National must also be a safe nation. National must also be a safe nation. National security begins at the border. Security begins at the border security begins at the border. Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, speaking in secret to a foreign bank, speaking in secret to a foreign bank, Hillary Clinton said her dream is for Hillary Clinton.
Said her dream is for Hillary Clinton. Said her dream is for totally open trade there go your jobs totally open trade there, go your jobs totally open trade there, go your jobs and open borders there goes your country and open borders there goes your country and open borders, there goes your country there goes.
Your continent there goes, your continent there goes your continent, WikiLeaks WikiLeaks we will build the wall and who is going to pay for the wall now and who is going to pay for the wall now and who is going to pay for the wall. Now we're gonna build the wall, Mexico's we're gonna build the wall. Mexico's we're gonna build the wall, Mexico's gonna pay for the way you know Mexico gonna pay for the way you know Mexico gonna pay for the way you know Mexico.
You talk about trade deficits, Mexico is - you talk about trade deficits, Mexico is - you talk about trade deficits. Mexico is making a fortune off the United States, making a fortune off the United States, making a fortune off the United States and they're great people, they're great and they're great people, they're great and they're great people, they're great people and they have leadership, that's people.
And they have leadership, that's people and they have leadership that's smarter, more cunning sharper than our smarter, more cunning sharper than our smarter, more cunning sharper than our leaders. But we have a massive trade leaders, but we have a massive trade leaders, but we have a massive trade deficit with Mexico.
And I'm not talking deficit with Mexico, and I'm not talking deficit with Mexico. And I'm not talking about the drugs that are pouring in and about the drugs that are pouring in and about the drugs that are pouring in and poisoning our youth in Ohio and New poisoning, our youth in Ohio and New poisoning, our youth in Ohio and New Hampshire and Pennsylvania and Virginia, Hampshire and Pennsylvania and Virginia, Hampshire and Pennsylvania and Virginia and every place out we're gonna build a and every place out.
We're gonna build a and every place out. We're gonna build a wall. We're gonna stop the poison from wall. We're gonna stop the poison from wall. We're gonna stop the poison from pouring in. We're going to do things that pouring in. We're going to do things that pouring in. We're going to do things that will make you so proud we're gonna be will make you so proud we're gonna be will make you so proud.
We're gonna be proud of our country. Again anyone who proud of our country. Again, anyone who proud of our country, again anyone who supports open borders can never be and supports open borders can never be and supports open borders can never be and should never be allowed to be. The should never be allowed to be the - should never be allowed to be the President of the United States and she, President of the United States and she President of the United States and she supports open with that radical pledge, Hillary Clinton with that radical pledge.
Hillary Clinton with that radical pledge, Hillary Clinton betrayed every single citizen of the betrayed, every single citizen of the betrayed, every single citizen of the United States as she's been doing for United States as she's been doing for United States as she's been doing for many years. And as she certainly did with many years and as she certainly did with many years and as she certainly did with her emails and her servers and all of her emails and her servers and all of her emails and her servers and all of the illegal things.
And she's also opened the illegal things and she's also opened the illegal things. And she's also opened the door to unlimited drugs, pouring into the door to unlimited drugs, pouring into the door to unlimited drugs, pouring into your community, which Ohio does not want your community, which Ohio does not want.
Your community, which Ohio does not want. You have a big problem, you have a big - you have a big problem, you have a big, you have a big problem, you have a big problem with, you know, a four-star problem with, you know, a four-star problem with, you know, a four-star general general Cartwright. Highly general, general Cartwright, highly general, general Cartwright, highly respected, four-star, we're talking respected, four-star, we're talking respected, four-star, we're talking top-of-the-line highly respected man, two top-of-the-line, highly respected man, two top-of-the-line, highly respected man two days ago was severely criticized and days ago was severely criticized.
And days ago was severely criticized and we'll probably have to serve almost five. We'll probably have to serve almost five. We'll probably have to serve almost five years in prison for lying to the FBI and years in prison for lying to the FBI and years in prison. For lying to the FBI and he said he did it for national security, he said he did it for national security.
He said he did it for national security reasons and I understand that. But he reasons and I understand that. But he reasons and I understand that. But he lied, one time to the FBI Hillary Clinton lied, one time to the FBI Hillary Clinton lied, one time to the FBI Hillary Clinton lied. So many times, nobody can count that lied.
So many times nobody can count that lied. So many times nobody can count that high, high high, so sad so sad and you look at General Petraeus so sad and you look at General Petraeus so sad and you look at General Petraeus, General Petraeus was was severely General Petraeus was was severely General Petraeus was Was severely sanctioned, General Petraeus his life was sanctioned, General Petraeus his life was sanctioned.
General Petraeus his life was essentially destroyed for doing a tiny, essentially destroyed for doing a tiny, essentially destroyed for doing a tiny fraction of what Hillary Clinton did. A fraction of what Hillary Clinton did a fraction of what Hillary Clinton did. A tiny fraction look at. General Cartwright, tiny fraction.
Look at general Cartwright, tiny fraction. Look at general Cartwright. Look at General Petraeus and these are look at General Petraeus and these are look at General Petraeus and these are great men and look what happened to them, great men and look what happened to them, great men and look what happened to them.
Their lives are destroyed and they did - their lives are destroyed and they did - their lives are destroyed and they did nothing, nothing compared to what Hillary, nothing, nothing compared to what Hillary, nothing, nothing compared to what Hillary Clinton and look at all of the other Clinton. And look at all of the other Clinton and look at all of the other people over the years that have suffered people over the years that have suffered people over the years that have suffered grave consequences.
And they did nothing grave consequences and they did nothing grave consequences and they did nothing compared to what she has done compared to what she has done compared to what she has done. Hillary's plan includes an open border. Hillary's plan includes an open border. Hillary's plan includes an open border with the Middle East meeting generations with the Middle East meeting generations with the Middle East meeting generations of radicalism and terrorism spreading of radicalism and terrorism spreading of radicalism and terrorism spreading and growing within your communities and and growing within your Communities and and growing within your communities and near your families and most people don't near your families and most people don't near your families.
And most people don't even know where they're going, including even know where they're going, including even know where they're going, including governors and Senators. Nobody knows this governors and Senators, nobody knows this governors and Senators, nobody knows this is going to be the great Trojan horse is going to be the great Trojan horse is going to be the great Trojan horse and you have to say I've been very good and You have to say I've been very good and you have to say I've been very good at predicting things.
So let me state at predicting things. So let me state at predicting things. So let me state this as clearly as I can if I'm elected this as clearly as I can if I'm elected this as clearly as I can. If I'm elected president, I'm going to keep radical president. I'm going to keep radical president. I'm going to keep radical Islamic terrorists, the hell out of our Islamic terrorists, the hell out of our Islamic terrorists, the hell out of our country, country country.
We will also stop the crisis of illegal. We will also stop the crisis of illegal. We will also stop the crisis of illegal immigration. A Trump administration will immigration a Trump administration will immigration a Trump administration will secure and defend our borders and I said secure and defend our borders and I said secure and defend our borders.
And I said before, we'll build the wall, but we'll do before we'll build the wall. But we'll do before we'll build the wall. But we'll do much more than build the wall. We're much more than build the wall. We're much more than build the wall. We're going to use a lot of this, we're gonna going to use a lot of this.
We're gonna going to use a lot of this. We're gonna be tough. We're gonna be vigilant. We're be tough. We're gonna be vigilant, we're be tough. We're gonna be vigilant, we're gonna be smart, we have the first ever gonna be smart. We have the first ever gonna be smart. We have the first ever endorsement from our ice and Border endorsement from our ice and Border endorsement from our ice and Border Patrol officers 16,500. These are great Patrol officers 16,500, these are great Patrol officers 16,500. These are great Americans and they want to do their job.
Americans and they want to do their job Americans and they want to do their job, right? And the amazing thing is their job right? And the amazing thing is their job right? And the amazing thing is their job is so much easier if Hillary got in is so much easier if Hillary got in is so much easier if Hillary got in because all they have to do is stand because all they have to do is stand because all They have to do is stand there and let the people walk right in there and let the people walk right in there and let the people walk right in front of them with me.
They have to work front of them with me. They have to work front of them with me, they have to work and that's what they want to do because - and that's what they want to do because - and that's what they want to do because they know what's happening better than they know what's happening better than They know what's happening better than any consultants we could hire and pay any consultants we could hire and pay any consultants we could hire and pay millions of dollars.
They tell you in two millions of dollars. They tell you in two millions of dollars. They tell you in two minutes what's happening and I said to minutes what's happening and I said to minutes what's happening and I said to him how important is the wall and they him how important is the wall and they him how important is the wall.
And they said mr. Trump, it's very, very important said mr. Trump, it's very, very important said mr. Trump, it's very, very important especially for the stoppage of drug flow, especially for the stoppage of drug flow, especially for the stoppage of drug flow coming into our country. It's very, very coming into our country.
It's very, very coming into our country. It's very, very important as Secretary of State Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of criminal aliens to allowed thousands of criminal aliens to allowed thousands of criminal aliens to be released because their home countries be released.
Because their home countries be released because their home countries would not take them back, would not take them back, would not take them back. These are gang members, these are killers, these are gang members, these are killers, these are gang members, these are killers, these are drug dealers. We bring them, these are drug dealers, we bring them, these are drug dealers, we bring them back to their home country and their back to their home country and their back to their home country and their country said very intelligently.
We don't country said very intelligently, we don't country said very intelligently. We don't want them take them out of here. We won't want them take them out of here. We won't want them take them out of here. We won't accept them. I promise you as president accept them, I promise you as president accept them.
I promise you as president. There won't be one such instance those there won't be one such instance those there won't be one such instance. Those people will be gladly accepted by their people will be gladly accepted by their people will be gladly accepted by their home home home. It was just reported that a man deported, it was just reported that a man deported.
It was just reported that a man deported from our country ten times in six years from our country ten times in six years from our country ten times in six years has been charged with raping. A has been charged with raping, a has been charged with raping. A twelve-year-old girl, twelve-year-old girl, twelve-year-old girl in August, Texas police arrested a serial in August, Texas police arrested a serial in August, Texas police arrested a serial, illegal immigrant rapist who had been illegal immigrant rapist, who had been illegal immigrant rapist who had been deported five times.
His victims included deported five times. His victims included deported five times. His victims included one 68 year old woman with a cane who one 68 year old woman with a cane, who one 68 year old woman with a cane who took his offer to drive him home. He left took his offer to drive him home. He left took his offer to drive him home.
He left her on the side of a dirt road in her on the side of a dirt road in her on the side of a dirt road in horrible, horrible condition. The 64 year horrible, horrible condition, the 64 year horrible, horrible condition, the 64 year old Air Force veteran Marilyn Faris, an old Air Force veteran Marilyn Faris, an old Air Force veteran Marilyn Faris, an unbelievable woman was raped and beaten.
Unbelievable woman was raped and beaten. Unbelievable woman was raped and beaten to death with a hammer by a repeat to death with a hammer by a repeat to death with a hammer by a repeat offending criminal illegal immigrant who offending criminal, illegal immigrant who offending criminal, illegal immigrant who should have been deported.
Many times by should have been deported many times by should have been deported many times by the Obama administration, but never ever. The Obama administration, but never ever the Obama administration, but never ever was and people still don't understand it was and people still don't understand. It was and people still don't understand it under a trump administration, this crime under a trump administration, this crime under a trump administration, this crime wave ends and it ends very, very quickly with a victory in November.
Everything with a victory in November, everything with a victory in November, everything will change in closing. Here are some of will change in closing. Here are some of will change in closing. Here are some of the amazing things we're going to do for the amazing things we're going to do for the amazing things we're going to do for our country starting in 2017. We are our country starting in 2017. We are our country starting in 2017. We are going to stop the drugs and illegal going to stop the drugs and illegal going to stop the drugs and illegal immigration from pouring into our immigration, from pouring into our immigration, from pouring into our country, we are going to give authorize country, we are going To give authorize country we are going to give authorize and get approved the biggest tax cut and get approved the biggest tax cut and get approved.
The biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan and even bicker. And since Ronald Reagan and even bicker and since Ronald Reagan and even bicker and included in that included in that is included in that included in that is included in that. Included in that is major simplification, major, major, major simplification, major major, major simplification, major major simplification.
The only one that won't simplification, the only one that won't simplification, the only one that won't be happiest H. On the other side, I talked about the - on the other side, I talked about the other side. I know the other side who other side, I know the other side who other side, I know the other side, who knows the other side better than me and knows the other side better than me and knows the other side better than me.
And I said the country's in very, very - I said the country's in very, very - I said the country's in very, very serious trouble, serious trouble, serious trouble and we're going to do it. So I became the - and we're going to do it. So I became the - and we're going to do it. So I became the ultimate insider in one day when I said ultimate insider in one day when I said ultimate insider in one day when I said on June 16th, coming down the escalator on June 16th coming down the escalator on June 16th coming down the escalator With Melania in one day in one day I with Melania in one day in one day I with Melania in one day in one day I went from the ultimate insider to man, went from the ultimate insider to man, went from the ultimate insider to man.
Have I become the ultimate outsider, have I become the ultimate outsider? Have I become the ultimate outsider right? So we've created - we have created a - so we've created, we have created a - so we've created - we have created a movement the likes of which nobody has movement the likes of which nobody has movement the likes of which nobody has ever seen before in this country.
Thank ever seen before in this country, thank ever seen. Before in this country. Thank you. You're my hero you you're my hero, you you're my hero. Let me tell you like that guy. I don't - let me tell you like that guy. I don't - let me tell you like that guy. I don't know who he is, but I like who did that know who he is, but I like who did that know who he is.
But I like who did that, who said that I like you look at your who said that, I like you look at your who said that, I like you look at your arms strong guy, tough guy, you have to go arms strong guy, tough guy, you have To go arms, strong guy, tough guy, you have to go out, you have to get everyone, you know out, you have to get everyone, you know out, you have to get everyone, you know, get them to vote.
I often say if you're get them to vote, I often say if you're get them to vote, I often say if you're really sick, you go to the doctor, he really sick, you go to the doctor, he really sick. You go to the doctor, he gives you the worst message he can give, gives you the worst message he can give, gives you the worst message he can give you.
You know what that message is, you've you, you know what that message is, you've you, you know what that message is. You've got two months not gonna make, it's got two months not gonna make, it's got two months not gonna make, it's really bad. And really serious that really bad and really serious that really bad and really serious that doesn't matter on November 8th, you get doesn't matter on November 8th, you get doesn't matter on November 8th, you get up and you get out to vote right now now, but nobody In this room is ever now now but nobody in this room is ever now now but nobody in this room is ever gonna get sick.
November 8, our campaign gonna get sick November 8, our campaign gonna get sick November 8. Our campaign is powered by our love for this country is powered by our love for this country is powered by our love for this country and our love for one another is there and our love for one another is there and our love for one another.
Is there ever anywhere a better place to be than ever, anywhere a better place to be than ever, anywhere, a better place to be than a Trump rally, no better place and no safer place, even no better place and no safer place, even no better place. And no safer place even when they hired people for $ 1500 to go when they hired people for $ 1500 to go when they hired people for $ 1500 to go and beat up our people, you know what and beat up our people, you know what and Beat up our people, you know what they found, you know what they found and they found you know what they found and they found you know what they found.
And by the way, they hurt a lot of police you by the way they hurt a lot of police you by the way they hurt a lot of police. You saw that you saw the blood pouring down, saw that you saw the blood pouring down, saw that you saw the blood pouring down, those people should be criminally. Those people should be criminally.
Those people should be criminally prosecuted and you know what the people prosecuted and you know what the people prosecuted and you know what the people that hired them, including the person that hired them, including the person that hired them, including the person that visited the White House 344 times that visited the White House, 344 times that visited the White House, 344 times should be criminally prosecuted.
By the way, if that were us forget it, do by the way, if that were us forget it, do by the way, if that were us forget it, do you really believe anything's going to - you really believe anything's going to - you really believe anything's going to happen To those people is that isn't it happen to those people, is that isn't it happen to those people is that isn't it sad.
Our country has never been in a sad, our country has never been in a sad. Our country has never been in a position like this. It's never ever been position like this. It's never ever been position like this. It's never ever been. Our justice system, it's never been when our justice system, it's never been when our justice system, it's never been when somebody can lie and lie and lie, somebody can lie and lie and lie.
Somebody can lie and lie and lie other people far greater than her lives. Other people far greater than her lives, other people far greater than her lives are being destroyed, but they can lie and are being destroyed, but they can lie and are being destroyed, but they can lie and lie and everything goes like nothing but lie.
And everything goes like nothing but lie and everything goes like nothing, but other people are destroyed. I'm going to - other people are destroyed. I'm going to - other people are destroyed. I'm going to fight for every citizen of every fight, for every citizen of every fight. For every citizen of every background, from every stretch of this background, from every stretch of this background, from every stretch of this nation, I'm going to fight for every nation.
I'm going to fight for every nation. I'm going to fight for every child living in poverty. I'm going to child living in poverty. I'm going to child living in poverty. I'm going to fight for every mom and every dad who fight for every mom and every dad who fight for every mom and every dad who lost her or his child to illegal lost her or his child to illegal lost her or his child to illegal immigration.
And drugs and gang violence, immigration and drugs and gang violence, immigration and drugs and gang violence, which is all over this country I'm going, which is all over this country I'm going, which is all over this country. I'm going to fight for every community whose jobs to fight for every community whose jobs to fight for every community whose jobs and factories have been ripped out of.
And factories have been ripped out of - and factories have been ripped out of your states like Ohio and shipped to your states like Ohio and shipped to your states like Ohio and shipped to other countries like Mexico and many other countries like Mexico and many other countries. Like Mexico and many, many more I'm going to fight for every many more I'm going to fight for every many more.
I'm going to fight for every person in this country who believes person in this country who believes person in this country who believes government should serve the people not government should serve the people. Not government should serve the people, not the donors and not the specialist. The donors and not the specialist, I'm going to fight to bring us all I'm going to fight to bring us all I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans were a divided together as Americans were a divided together as Americans were a divided country.
We will not be a divided country country, we will not be a divided country country. We will not be a divided country for long imagine what our country could for long imagine what our country could for long imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working accomplish. If we started working accomplish - if we started working together as one people under one God together as one people under one God together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag in 10 years in 20 years, in 30 years and in 10 years in 20 Years in 30 years and in 10 years, in 20 years, in 30 years and maybe for some in 40 and 50 years, you're maybe for some - in 40 and 50 years, you're maybe for some - in 40 and 50 years, you're going to look back at this rally For the going to look back at this rally for the going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life, you're going to rest of your life, you're going to rest of your life, you're going to remember this day, this is a movement.
Remember this day, this is a movement. Remember this day this is a movement like no one in this country has ever like. No one in this country has ever like. No one in this country has ever seen, seen seen before. We have a big crowd today but we - before we have a big crowd today, but we - before we have a big crowd today, but we have big crowds everywhere.
Many of the have big crowds everywhere. Many of the have big crowds everywhere. Many of the pundits have said is the single greatest pundits have said is the single greatest pundits have said is the single greatest political phenomena they've ever seen in political phenomena they've ever seen in political phenomena they've ever seen in their lifetime.
Bill o'reilly said it, their lifetime bill o'reilly said it, their lifetime bill o'reilly said it. We're going to look back at this. We're going to look back at this. We're going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most election and say this is by far the most election and say this is by far the most important vote you've ever cast for important vote.
You've ever cast for important vote. You've ever cast for anyone at any time anyone at any time anyone at any time november a, we're 17 days away from achieving the - we're 17 days away from achieving the - we're 17 days away from achieving the change. We've been waiting for our entire change. We've been waiting for our entire change.
We've been waiting for our entire lives. It's going to happen, you're going lives, it's going to happen, you're going lives, it's going to happen. You're going to be so proud of your country again and to be so proud of your country again and to be so proud of your country again and hopefully you're gonna be so proud of.