Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Colorado Springs, CO|September 17, 2016
[This was transcribed and punctuated by Factba.se's AI, Margaret, and automatically corrected based on her understanding of Donald Trump's speech patterns. It has not been edited by a human. Please double-check any quotes against the video.]
Before I must tell you that just before before, I must tell you that just before before I must tell you that just before I got off the plane, they've gone off to - I got off the plane, they've gone off to, I got off the plane, they've gone Off to do work and nobody knows exactly what's do work and nobody knows exactly what's do work and nobody knows exactly what's going on.
But we are living in a time we going on. But we are living in a time we going on. But we are living in a time we better get very tough folks, you better, better get very tough folks, you better, better get very tough folks, you better get very good. It's a terrible thing, get very good. It's a terrible thing, get very good.
It's a terrible thing that's going on in our world and in our - that's going on in our world and in our - that's going on in our world and in our country. And we are going to get tough country and we are going to get tough country and we are going to get tough too smart and vigilant in any event. I am too smart and vigilant in any event.
I am too smart and vigilant in any event. I am so thrilled to be in Colorado special, you call Harrison just came out we were you call Harrison just came out, we were you call Harrison just came out. We were up for purchasing power up for purchasing power up for purchasing power. I have a smaller crew and spending, oh, I have a smaller crew and spending, oh, I have a smaller crew and spending, oh honey, you were considered a genius.
If honey, you were considered a genius. If honey, you were considered a genius, if you don't spend a lot of money, you don't - you don't spend a lot of money. You don't - you don't spend a lot of money. You don't have a big crew. They say, oh, he's not have a big crew. They say, oh, he's not have a big crew, they say, oh, he's not spending a lot of money, but we're gonna spending a lot of money.
But we're gonna spending a lot of money. But we're gonna spend a lot of money in Colorado. Lehder has just projected the wind for lehder has just projected the wind for lehder has just projected the wind for us in Fargo without women, Oh Oh, Oh four or five points in Ohio, amazing four or five points in Ohio, amazing four or five points in Ohio.
Amazing people, we look at what's going on with people, we look at what's going on with people. We look at what's going on with our manufacturing being sucked out of our manufacturing, being sucked out of our manufacturing being sucked out of our country, our country, our country. We're not gonna be having that happen.
We're not gonna be having that happen. We're not gonna be having that happen long line. We're up in many, many polls, long line, we're up in many, many polls, long line. We're up in many, many polls nationwide. The Los Angeles Times, mr. so nationwide, the Los Angeles Times, mr. so nationwide, the Los Angeles Times, mr.
so six points nationwide, somewhere six points nationwide, somewhere six points nationwide somewhere we - they're talking about it is, you know we - they're talking about it is, you know we - They're talking about it is, you know that Bill O'Reilly said one of the great that Bill O'Reilly said one of the great that Bill O'Reilly said one of the great phenomenas he's ever seen actually said phenomenas he's ever seen, actually said phenomenas he's ever seen actually said It's the greatest political phenomena.
It's the greatest political phenomena. It's the greatest political phenomena he's seen with his lifetime. But I'll - he's seen with his lifetime, but I'll - he's seen with his lifetime. But I'll tell you something. It doesn't mean tell you something. It doesn't mean tell you something, it doesn't mean anything when we got a win, it's going to anything when we got a win, it's going to anything when we got a win, it's going to be a victory for the people.
It's going be a victory for the people. It's going be a victory for the people. It's going to be a victory for you all the way to, to be a victory for you all the way to - to be a victory for you all the way to that corner over there, boy, that corner over there, boy, that corner over there, boy, in 2017, Anything we dream of for our in 2017, anything we dream of for our in 2017? Anything we dream of for our country will be achieved.
Started country will be achieved, started country will be achieved, started achieving big, achieving big achieving big. We don't dream big anymore this country. We don't dream big anymore. This country. We don't dream big anymore this country bigger and all of those petty bigger and all of those petty bigger and all of those petty politicians that don't have a economic politicians that don't have a economic politicians that don't have a economic prosperity.
My economic agenda can be prosperity. My economic agenda can be prosperity. My economic agenda can be summed up in three very beautiful words, summed up in three very beautiful words, summed up in three very beautiful words. You know they are jobs, job. I'm going to have a massive tax. I'm going to have a massive tax.
I'm going to have a massive tax reduction, big big league taxi, but the reduction, big, big league taxi, but the reduction, big, big league taxi, but the rookie and glue class hammers we're rookie. And glue class hammers we're rookie and glue class hammers we're going to reduce. And this is so important going to reduce and this is so important going to reduce.
And this is so important, reduce job-killing regulations. We're going to keep pills for how we get - we're going to keep pills for how we get - we're going to keep pills for how we get good jobs, back, tip is sucked away, we're good. Jobs, back, tip is sucked away, we're good. Jobs back tip is sucked away.
We're going to renegotiate our disasters, trade going to renegotiate our disasters, trade going to renegotiate our disasters, trade deals. Now that doesn't mean you'll be deals. Now that doesn't mean you'll be deals. Now that doesn't mean you'll be stressed, they are so desires when I say I'm gonna renegotiate this, when I say I'm gonna renegotiate this, when I say I'm gonna renegotiate this jig drops and I say I'm talking to for jig drops.
And I say I'm talking to for jig drops and I say I'm talking to for trade, we're going to have great deals trade, we're going to have great deals trade. We're going to have great deals for our country. We're going to have job for our country. We're going to have job for our country, we're going to have job reducing heels not jumping.
It's gonna be reducing heels, not jumping. It's gonna be reducing heels, not jumping. It's gonna be a long slow tragic death and then maybe a long slow tragic death and then maybe a long slow tragic death. And then maybe you'll get to use a little tiny piece. You'll get to use a little tiny piece. You'll get to use a little tiny piece, but that's gonna be the last thing, but that's gonna be the last thing.
But that's gonna be the last thing you're worried about. We're going to - a - you're worried about we're going to a - you're worried about we're going to a point Supreme Court justices who uphold point Supreme Court justices who uphold point Supreme Court justices who uphold the Constitution of the United States, so the Constitution of the United States.
So the Constitution of the United States so important, we're going to work with law important. We're going to work with law important. We're going to work with law enforcement, our police to stop the surge enforcement, our police to stop the surge enforcement, our police to stop the surge of violent crime.
We're going to of violent crime. We're going to of violent crime. We're going to revitalize our crumbling infrastructure, revitalize our crumbling infrastructure, revitalize our crumbling infrastructure. We're going to provide school choice to - we're going to provide school choice to - we're going to provide school choice to every disadvantaged child in America of every disadvantaged child in America of every disadvantaged child in America of which we have many.
And we're going by which we have many and we're going by which we have many and we're going by the way to end Common Core. We're the way to end Common Core. We're the way to end Common Core. We're bringing our education local. We're going to end illegal immigration. We're going to end illegal immigration.
We're going to end illegal immigration. And yes, we will build a wall. We're going to build the wall and you we're going to build the wall and you we're going to build the wall and you know what they don't know yet, but know what they don't know yet. But know what they don't know yet. But they're starting to get the idea and they're great people and that very - and they're great people and that very - and they're great people and that very good leaders, much smarter than our good leaders, much smarter than our good leaders, much smarter than our leaders, believe me.
But Mexico will be leaders, believe me, but Mexico will be leaders, believe me, but Mexico will be paying for that wall, paying for that wall, paying for that wall. They will be playing, they will be playing, they will be playing. We know we know, we know we're going to keep the terrorists out, we're going to keep the terrorists out, we're going to keep the terrorists out of our country and apply new screening of our country and apply new screening of our country and apply new screening standards.
Hundred percent standards, hundred percent standards, hundred percent to admit people that love our country to admit people that love our country to admit people that love our country and wan na love our country and people and wan na love our country and people and wan na love. Our country and people that want to love our people, we're going that want to love our people.
We're going that want to love our people. We're going to defeat Isis and radical Islamic to defeat Isis and radical Islamic to defeat Isis and radical Islamic terrorism. We're going to rebuild our terrorism. We're going to rebuild our terrorism. We're going to rebuild our badly depleted military, the greatest badly depleted military, the greatest badly depleted military, the greatest people on earth.
But we've got ta build, we people on earth, but we've got ta build. We people on earth, but we've got ta build, we have to rebuild our military, its have to rebuild our military, its have to rebuild our military, its depleted, our fighters are 18 years old, depleted our fighters are 18 years old, depleted our fighters are 18 years old.
In some cases, they go out to replace, in some cases they go out to replace. In some cases they go out to replace marks, they go to the airplane. Graveyards marks, they go to the airplane graveyards marks, they go to the airplane graveyards to get parts because they don't make to get parts because they don't make to get parts because they don't make them anymore.
They go to museums to take them anymore. They go to museums to take them anymore. They go to museums to take parts off blades, parts off blades, parts off blades. These are fighter jets that we have. These are fighter jets that we have. These are fighter jets that we have right now. You've seen it right now, you've seen it right now.
You've seen it. It is terrible. This is not the United, it is terrible. This is not the United, it is terrible. This is not the United States of America and we're going to States of America and we're going to States of America and we're going to remember those three very famous words. Remember those three very famous words, remember those three very famous words, peace through strength.
It's not going to peace through strength, it's not going to peace through strength. It's not going to happen, happen happen and hopefully we won't have to use our - and hopefully we won't have to use our - and hopefully we won't have to use our strength so much. So we needed maybe more strength so much so we needed maybe more strength so much.
So we needed maybe more than ever before in all things. It's than ever before in all things. It's than ever before in all things. It's going to be American first America going to be American first America going to be American first America. You don't hear that anymore. You go out, you don't hear that anymore.
You go out, you don't hear that anymore. You go out and you see these straight deals that - and you see these straight deals that - and you see these straight deals that looks like we're doing the deals for, looks like we're doing the deals for, looks like we're doing the deals for other countries, correct, correct.
Correct, that is so correct in this mission we that is so correct in this mission we that is so correct in this mission. We are going to campaign in every community are going to campaign in every community are going to campaign in every community in our country. This is our chance to - in our country, this is our chance to in our country.
This is our chance to replace a failed corrupt and dishonest replace, a failed corrupt and dishonest replace, a failed corrupt and dishonest political establishment with a new political establishment with a new political establishment with a new government. The answers to the citizens government, the answers to the citizens government, the answers to the citizens, not to the special interest, not to the special interest, not to the special interest.
We can't keep listening to the same. We can't keep listening to the same. We can't keep listening to the same people who created all of these problems. People who created all of these problems, people who created all of these problems in the first place, by the way, Hillary in the first place, by the way, Hillary in the first place.
By the way, Hillary Clinton, we're not going to listen and Clinton, we're not going to listen and Clinton, we're not going to listen. And when I - when I - when I gonna take it anymore, we're going to do gonna take it anymore. We're going to do gonna take it anymore. We're going to do what we know we have to do.
That's why I'm proud. And by the way, what - that's why I'm proud. And by the way, what - that's why I'm proud. And by the way, what you say that let's just win in November, it's so simple, it's so simple, it's so simple, get out vote, bring everybody if you're get out vote, bring everybody if you're get out vote, bring everybody, if you're feeling horrible, just horrible whether feeling Horrible just horrible whether feeling horrible, just horrible whether you're sick, you're really sick, you can't - you're sick, you're really sick, you can't, you're sick, you're really sick, you can't get out of bed.
I don't give a, you know get out of bed. I don't give a, you know, get out of bed, I don't give a - you know what, I don't even use that word anymore. What I don't even use that word anymore. What I don't even use that word anymore because if I use that word, they'll say because if I use that word, they'll say because if I use that word, they'll say he used foul language it this time.
So I - he used foul language it this time. So I - he used foul language it this time, so I won't even use that word that starts won't even use that word, that starts won't even use that word. That starts with a D, right, you know, not so bad with a D, right, you know not so bad with a D, right, you know not so bad.
I don't even like using the H word you, I don't even like using the H word you, I don't even like using the H word, you know the places down there because if I know the places down there, because if I know the places down there, because If I use that word, they'll say he used - foul use that word, they'll say he used foul use that word, they'll say he used foul language.
See I've learned. It's been a language. See I've learned. It's been a language. See I've learned. It's been a process, but that's why I'm so proud to have the - but that's why I'm so proud to have the - but that's why I'm so proud to have the endorsement of the people who actually endorsement of the people who actually endorsement of the people who actually On the ground, they're off the ground on the ground.
They're off the ground on the ground. They're off the ground. They know what needs to be done, not the - they know what needs to be done, not the - they know what needs to be done, not the insiders from Washington DC. They know insiders from Washington DC. They know insiders from Washington DC. They know what has to be done, too, but they'll - what has to be done too, but they'll - what has to be done too, but they'll never do it because they're working for never do it because they're working for never do it because they're working for themselves.
I see a mosquito right now. I themselves, I see a mosquito right now. I themselves I see a mosquito right now. I don't like the students to watch, get a don't like the students to watch, get a don't like the students to watch, get a behavior. Misty, no, I never minded behavior, misty, no, I never minded behavior, misty, no, I never minded mosquitos now.
I'm not loving. Am I must mosquitos now I'm not loving am I must mosquitos now I'm not loving am, I must be go this week I was on to get the be go this week I was on to get the be go this week I was on to get the Endorsement of 17 recipients of the endorsement of 17 recipients of the endorsement of 17 recipients of the Medal of Honor, Medal of Honor, Medal of Honor and many, many of our incredible military and many, many of our incredible military and many, many of our incredible military leaders.
We now have the endorsement of leaders. We now have the endorsement of leaders. We now have the endorsement of more than 160 top generals and admirals more than 160 top generals and admirals more than 160 top generals and admirals. That's a lot. We also have to support an that's a lot we also have to support an that's a lot.
We also have to support an endorsement of 16,500 border control endorsement of 16,500 border control endorsement of 16,500 border control agents. First time they ever endorsed a agents first time they ever endorsed a agents first time they ever endorsed a presidential candidate. Earlier today, I presidential candidate earlier today I presidential candidate earlier today, I had a chance to spend some time with the had a chance to spend some time with the had a chance to spend some time with the victims of illegal immigrant violence, victims of illegal immigrant Violence victims of illegal immigrant violence and this is violence.
These are great and this is violence. These are great and this is violence. These are great people of all races and all backgrounds, people of all races and all backgrounds, people of all races and all backgrounds. They're all united by one common fact. They're all united by one common fact. They're all united by one common fact their government failed them that its their government failed them that its their government failed them that its most basic duty.
They just - and I have to most basic duty, they just - and I have to most basic duty, they just - and I have to tell you it was so sad, but maybe some of tell you it was so sad, but maybe some of tell you it was so Sad, but maybe some of you saw it today was on television. You saw it today was on television.
You saw it today was on television, but we received the endorsement of the - but we received the endorsement of the - but we received the endorsement of the nation's largest police for criminal nation's largest police for criminal nation's largest police for criminal horror. It's like the Fraternal Order of horror.
It's like the Fraternal Order of horror. It's like the Fraternal Order of Police. And we talked about it this Police and we talked about it this Police and we talked about it this morning. If you would see these people morning, if you would see these people morning, if you would see these people who lost their doors, their sons their who lost their doors, their sons, their who lost their doors, their sons, their husbands, their wives to the most violent husbands.
Their wives to the most violent husbands their wives to the most violent people, the most violent people you would people the most violent people you would people the most violent people. You would say that when I first came out. And I say that when I first came out and I say that when I first came out and I started talking about trade deals that I started talking about trade deals that I started talking about trade deals that I started talking about energy.
But I started talking about energy, but I started talking about energy, but I started talking about - started talking about - started talking about immigration. You would say, boy, oh boy was immigration. You would say, boy, oh boy was immigration. You would say, boy, oh boy was he right about that and we're going to he right about that and we're going to he right about that and we're going to stop the crime.
We're gonna stop the stop, the crime, we're gonna stop the stop, the crime, we're gonna stop the drugs from warring across our border and drugs from warring across our border and drugs from warring across our border and poisoning our youth. And you have to say poisoning our youth and you have to say poisoning our youth.
And you have to say problem right here, we're going to stop problem right here. We're going to stop problem right here. We're going to stop that problem, not only our youth, by the that problem, not only our youth, by the that problem, not only our youth, by the way, many, many people are being poisoned way.
Many, many people are being poisoned way. Many, many people are being poisoned by what's touring across that border, so by what's touring across that border, so by what's touring across that border. So we're gonna stop and we're gonna stop it, we're gonna stop and we're gonna stop it. We're gonna stop and we're gonna stop it her last night in Fort Worth, Texas, a her last night in Fort Worth, Texas, a her last night in Fort Worth, Texas.
A newly commissioned officer in training newly commissioned officer in training newly commissioned officer in training. And his field officer was shot while and his field officer was shot while and his field officer was shot while responding to a possible suicide. Also responding to a possible suicide also responding to a possible suicide.
Also last night in Philadelphia, a 19 year last night in Philadelphia, a 19 year last night in Philadelphia, a 19 year police veteran was shot eight times. The police veteran was shot eight times. The police veteran was shot eight times. The police commissioner said it was a police commissioner said it was a police commissioner, said it was a miracle that she wasn't killed.
She also miracle that she wasn't killed. She also miracle that she wasn't killed. She also another officer who formerly served for another officer, who formerly served for another officer who formerly served for 33 years, the Philadelphia Police, 33 years, the Philadelphia Police, 33 years, the Philadelphia Police Department was shot numerous times.
Our Department was shot numerous times. Our Department was shot numerous times. Our prayers are with all of the victims we prayers are with all of the victims we prayers are. With all of the victims, we must stand with our police. We must must stand with our police. We must must stand with our police, we must and I'm so greatly honored to have the - and I'm so greatly honored to have the - and I'm so greatly honored to have the support of our local law enforcement and support of our local law enforcement and support of Our local law enforcement and all law enforcement, we have such all law enforcement.
We have such all law enforcement. We have such incredible law-enforcement support. Our incredible law-enforcement support, our incredible law-enforcement support, our men and women in military uniform, men and women in military uniform, men and women in military uniform, unbelievable support and the support of unbelievable support and the support of unbelievable support and the support of firefighters paramedics.
And so any other public servants we have got any other public servants, we have got any other public servants we have got support. I'll tell you what bucks I'm support. I'll tell you what bucks I'm support. I'll tell you what bucks I'm looking and I'm seeing every place we go looking and I'm seeing every place we go looking and I'm seeing every place we go.
We have crowds like this every place we - we have crowds like this every place we - we have crowds like this. Every place we just left. We were in Texas were in just left. We were in Texas were in just left. We were in Texas were in Oklahoma. Every place we go, we're having Oklahoma, every place we go, we're having Oklahoma, every place we go, we're having crowds like this.
There's something crowds like this. There's something crowds like this. There's something special going on. We're going to take. Is there any place that's more fun to be? Is there any place that's more fun to be? Is there any place that's more fun to be and look at this and look at this and look at this, I mean, how beautiful is that?
Then a - I mean, how beautiful is that then a - I mean, how beautiful is that then a truck rally truck rally, truck rally? Nope, myself don't play safer and there's - nope myself don't play safer and there's - nope myself don't play safer and there's no place safe for that. I can tell you a no place safe for that.
I can tell you a no place safe for that. I can tell you a lot of love is Allah Allah, I just want lot of love is Allah Allah, I just want lot of love is Allah Allah. I just want to tell you this that - I mean this from - to tell you this that I mean this from - to tell you this that I mean this from the bottom of my heart, it's November 8th, the bottom of my heart, it's November 8th.
The bottom of my heart, it's November 8th. If we went - not me, we went - I'm the - if we went - not me, we went - I'm the - if we went - not me, we went - I'm the message, I've got a good job, is the message I've got a good job is the message I've got a good job Is the message about but - but we all know what message about but but we all know what message about, but but we all know what has to be done and we are going to do has to be done and we are going to do has to be Done and we are going to do something special on my promise in this something special on my promise in this something special on my promise in this I will never ever let you down.
You're - I will never ever let you down. You're - I will never ever let you down. You're not have to be, let it out our support, not have to be, let it out our support, not have to be let it out. Our support comes from all regions. All backgrounds comes from all regions. All backgrounds comes from all regions, all backgrounds and all walks of life and all walks of life and all walks of life.
You're the bricklayers and the hope you're the bricklayers and the hope you're the bricklayers and the hope builders and the doctors and the builders. And the doctors and the builders and the doctors and the dentists of the carpenters are the dentists of the carpenters are the dentists of the carpenters are the welders young and old rich and poor welders, young and old rich and poor welders, young and old rich and Poor black white Hispanic, but above all else, black, white, Hispanic, but above all else, black, white, Hispanic, but above all else we're Americans and that's the support we're Americans and that's the support we're Americans and that's the support.
We're America this word and while my opponent Hillary this word and while my opponent Hillary this word and while my opponent Hillary cleanser noise, how many years have we've been saying? How many years have we've been saying? How many years have we've been saying this name. You know, I keep hearing that this name, you know, I keep hearing that this name, you know, I keep hearing that she wants to do this to us to do that.
She wants to do this to us. To do that. She wants to do this to us to do that. Where is she meant for 35 years? She's where is she meant for 35 years? She's where is she meant for 35 years? She's annoyed this, annoyed this annoyed, this, where has she been my opponent slanders? Where has she been my opponent slanders, where has she been my opponent slanders you as deplorable and a word that hasn't been picked up to and a word that hasn't been picked up to and a word that hasn't been picked up to the same extent irredeemable.
That means the same extent irredeemable. That means the same extent irredeemable. That means you can't be made better or whatever you can't be made better or whatever you can't be made better or whatever that means you're always going to be. That means you're always going to be - that means you're always going to be deplorable, right?
I don't think so. No, I deplorable right. I don't think so. No, I deplorable right. I don't think so. No, I don't think so. I told you hard-working, don't think so. I told you hard-working, don't think so. I told you hard-working American patriots who love your family, American patriots who love your family, American patriots who love your family and love your country.
And you want us and love your country and you want us and love your country. And you want us - you want to see it be better, you want to see it be better. You want to see it be better. Hilary Clinton's comments and they were Hilary Clinton's comments and they were Hilary Clinton's comments and they were angry comments as you see her making as angry comments as you see her making as angry comments as you see her making.
As I was watching, I was starting to fall, I was watching. I was starting to fall. I was watching. I was starting to fall asleep watching because it's hard to asleep watching because it's hard to asleep watching because it's hard to stay awake. Let's face it. So I'm starting stay awake, let's face it. So I'm starting stay awake, let's face it.
So I'm starting to doze off and then I heard the word to doze off and then I heard the word to doze off and then I heard the word deplorable. I said, whoa, an irredeemable deplorable, I said, whoa, an irredeemable deplorable I said, whoa, an irredeemable think of it, but her comments display the think of it, but her comments display the think of it.
But her comments display the same sense of arrogance and entitlement. Same sense of arrogance and entitlement, same sense of arrogance and entitlement that letter to violate federal law, that letter to violate federal law, that letter to violate federal law Secretary of say hi and delete 33,000 Secretary of say hi and delete 33,000 Secretary of say hi and Delete 33,000 email, think of it 33000, but it really had to think of it 33000, but it really had to think of it 33000, but it really had to do with yoga and the wedding yo.
So what do with yoga and the wedding yo. So what do with yoga and the wedding yo, so what do we do? We give yoga 5 and the wedding. Do we - do we give yoga 5 and the wedding? Do we - do we give yoga 5 and the wedding three right where the rest of them three, right, where the rest of them three, right, where the rest of them destroy your phones?
And think of this destroy your phones and think of this destroy your phones and think of this with a hammer bomb 13 fo put classified with a hammer bomb 13 fo put classified with a hammer bomb 13, fo put classified information in the reach of our enemies. Information in the reach of our enemies, information in the reach of our enemies lie to Congress and some of government lie to Congress and some of government lie to Congress and some of government favors and access to cells.
Government favors and access to cells. Government favors and access to cells, government favors of masters. It's the same attitude favors of masters. It's the same attitude favors of masters. It's the same attitude of arrogance, an entitlement that of arrogance, an entitlement that of arrogance, an entitlement that explains why she has never taken, explains why she has never taken, explains why she has never taken accountability for the disaster.
She accountability for the disaster. She accountability. For the disaster she created in the Middle East, what you see created in the Middle East, what you see created in the Middle East, what you see is largely a creation of Barack Obama is largely a creation of Barack Obama is largely a creation of Barack Obama And Hillary, what before she came into office, let Mia before she came into office, let Mia before she came into office, let Mia would staple Syria was under control, would staple Syria was under control, would staple?
Syria was under control, right? You just said it right, you just said it right, you just said it, Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence. Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence. Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence and Iran was being totally choked off by. And Iran was being totally choked off by and Iran was being totally choked off by sanctions.
They were not - they were not sanctions, they were not - they were not sanctions, they were not - they were not gonna make it. The group we today and you gonna make it the group we today and you gonna make it the group we today and you see today, we call Isis. This is the group see today we call Isis. This is the group see today we call Isis.
This is the group that was formed, we call Isis and we're - that was formed, we call Isis and we're - that was formed, we call Isis, and we're supposed to being extinguished now after supposed to being extinguished now after supposed to being extinguished. Now after Hillary, here's what we have, Libya, Syria, Hillary, here's what we have.
Libya, Syria, Hillary, here's what we have. Libya, Syria and Iraq are a total chaos. Iran is on and Iraq are a total chaos. Iran is on and Iraq are a total chaos. Iran is on the path to nuclear weapons. Tennis is the path to nuclear weapons, tennis is the path to nuclear weapons. Tennis is becoming not a local power, but a world becoming not a local power but a world becoming not a local power but a world power.
So fast, how fast is the second power so fast, how fast is the second power so fast, how fast is the second? They were dying two years ago. Look, they were dying two years ago. Look, they were dying two years ago. Look, what's happened and remember the four what's happened and remember the four what's happened and remember the four hundred million in cash, well that turned hundred million in cash, well that turned hundred million in cash.
Well that turned out to be wrong. I'm sorry, it turned out out to be wrong. I'm sorry, it turned out out to be wrong. I'm sorry, it turned out to be 1.7 billion in jail. But can you imagine - can you imagine the - but can you imagine - can you imagine the - but can you imagine - can you imagine the scene of 1.7 billion in cash, different scene of 1.7 billion in cash, different scene of 1.7 billion in cash, different denominations.
I mean the whole thing is denominations. I mean the whole thing is denominations. I mean the whole thing is - so it wasn't four hundred, many there was. So it wasn't four hundred, many there was, so it wasn't four hundred, many, there was one point, seven billion who does this is one point, seven billion who does this is one point, seven billion.
Who does - this is where were these people coming from and where were these people coming from and where were these people coming from? And now you look at Iran and they're now - you look at Iran and they're now - you look at Iran and they're rebuilding. They want to shoot down our rebuilding. They want to shoot down our rebuilding.
They want to shoot down our air plants. You see with the little boats, air plants you see with the little boats, air plants, you see with the little boats going around our ships, you see that and going around our ships, you see that and going around our ships, you see that and talking they're talking, They feel talking - they're talking - they feel talking, they're talking - they feel emboldened after all of this.
Oh, boy, oh, emboldened. After all of this. Oh, boy! Oh, emboldened. After all of this, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, boy, oh, boy, boy, oh, boy, it's gonna be some different folks that it's gonna be some different folks that it's gonna be some different folks that promise promise promise. Can you imagine the captain on the - can you imagine the captain on the - can you imagine the captain on the destroyer as they keep circling with his destroyer as they keep circling with his destroyer as they keep circling with his little boats, he wants to shoot them Out little boats, he wants to shoot them out little boats, he wants to shoot them out of the water, so bad, he was standing of the water, so bad, he was standing of the water so bad, he was standing there like this.
Just looking - just look there like this, just looking - just look there like this, just looking - just look at saying what is going on, where have we at saying what is going on, where have we at saying what is going on, where have we, where have we come. And God, where have we come and God where have we come and God Isis is spreading everywhere and Isis is spreading everywhere and Isis is spreading everywhere and launching attacks against the West, her launching attacks against the West, her launching attacks against the West.
Her judgement on the economy is so bad judgement on the economy is so bad judgement on the economy is so bad. Hillary's donors and advisors are the Hillary's donors and advisors are the Hillary's. Donors and advisors are the same people who gave us after the worst. Same people who gave us after the worst.
Same people who gave us after the worst trade deal in the history. That of our trade deal in the history that of our trade deal in the history that of our country in the history of our world country in the history of our world country in the history of our world, there is never been a trade deal as bad.
There is never been a trade deal as bad. There is never been a trade deal as bad as dr. anywhere in the world. You look to as dr. anywhere in the world, you look to as dr. anywhere in the world, you look to upstate New York, you look at New England, upstate New York, you look at New England, upstate New York, you look at New England, you look at Colorado, You look at the - you look at Colorado, you look at the - you look at Colorado, you look at the manufacturing that's been ripped out of manufacturing, that's been ripped out of manufacturing, that's been ripped out of Ohio and Pennsylvania and everywhere and Ohio and Pennsylvania and everywhere.
And Ohio and Pennsylvania and everywhere and it's got to Mexico and other places and it's got to Mexico and other places and it's got to Mexico and other places. And I tell the story because I have a friend, I tell the story because I have a friend. I tell the story because I have a friend better than a consultant, it costs me better than a consultant.
It costs me better than a consultant. It costs me nothing. He is a great guy. He builds nothing. He is a great guy. He builds nothing. He is a great guy, he builds plans and I said to him how are you plans and I said to him how are you plans and I said to him how are you doing? He said I'm doing unbelievably doing - he said I'm doing unbelievably doing, he said I'm doing unbelievably, we're building the greatest plants in.
We're building the greatest plants in. We're building the greatest plants in the world. We're said to Mexico what the world we're said to Mexico, what the world we're said to Mexico, what about our country? Not so much, it's gonna about our country, not so much, it's gonna about our country, not so much, it's gonna change folks.
It's gonna go the opposite change folks, it's gonna go the opposite change folks, it's gonna go the opposite balloon balloon balloon. They'll outside of the entry into the - they'll outside of the entry into the - they'll outside of the entry into the World Trade Organization. You see where World Trade Organization, you see where World Trade Organization, you see where that goes and now she wants to approve that goes and now she wants to approve that goes and now she wants to approve trans-pacific partnership.
This look me trans-pacific partnership, this look me trans-pacific partnership, this look me, she called it the golf standard, this she called it the golf standard, this she called it the golf standard. This will be a disaster. Her policies have - will be a disaster. Her policies have will be a disaster.
Her policies have produced suffering everywhere but produced suffering everywhere but produced suffering everywhere, but especially in our inner cities, 45 % of especially in our inner cities, 45 % of especially in our inner cities, 45 % of African Americans. Under the age six are African Americans under the age six are African Americans.
Under the age, six are living in poverty, 58 % of living in poverty, 58 % of living in poverty, 58 % of african-american youth are not employed. African-american youth are not employed. African-american youth are not employed more than 3,000 people have been shot in more than 3,000 people have been shot in more than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago since January.
First, the city of Chicago since January. First the city of Chicago since January. First, can you imagine by the way, by the way, can you imagine by the way, by the way, can you imagine by the way, by the way that's worse than Afghanistan, that's - that's worse than Afghanistan, that's - that's worse than Afghanistan, that's worse than these war-torn countries.
It's worse than these war-torn countries. It's worse than these war-torn countries. It's going dangerous. The jobs of God, the going dangerous, the jobs of God, the going dangerous, the jobs of God, the schools are failing, the communities are schools are failing, the communities are - schools are failing.
The communities are totally unsafe and to the African totally unsafe and to the African totally unsafe and to the African Americans living in those communities I Americans living in those communities. I Americans living in those communities I say vote for Donald Trump. What do you say vote for Donald Trump, what do you say vote for Donald Trump?
What do you have to lose, have to lose, have to lose, what do that cause? I will fix it, I will - what do that cause? I will fix it. I will. What do that cause? I will fix it, I will fix it. I'll bring back your jobs and fix it. I'll bring back your jobs and fix it. I'll bring back your jobs and your security and I'll fight for you your security and I'll fight for you your security and I'll fight for you harder than anyone has ever fought harder than anyone has ever fought harder than anyone has ever fought before.
These cities have been run by the - these cities have been run by the - these cities have been run by the policies of Hillary Clinton and her policies of Hillary Clinton and her policies of Hillary Clinton and her friends. And I'm telling you, they're only friends and I'm telling you, they're only friends and I'm telling you they're only getting worse.
They're getting worse, getting worse. They're getting worse, getting worse. They're getting worse every time she wants you vote and that every time she wants you vote and that every time she wants you vote and that she said see you like in four years. But she said, see you like in four years. But she said, see you like in four years, but hopefully we're not going to be worried.
Hopefully we're not going to be worried. Hopefully we're not going to be worried about it is really sad. It is really sad about it is really sad. It is really sad about it is really sad. It is really sad what's happened to our inner cities. They - what's happened to our inner cities, they - what's happened to our inner cities, they want your vote and by the way the want your vote and by the way the want your vote and by the way the Democrats have run them for 50, 60, 70 Democrats have Run them for 50, 60, 70 Democrats have run them for 50, 60, 70 even a hundred years uninterrupted, a even a hundred years uninterrupted, a even a hundred years uninterrupted, a hundred years.
And look what you have I hundred years and look what you have I hundred years and look what you have, I will fix, it will fix, it will fix it. Remember that well, what do you have to remember that? Well, what do you have to remember that? Well, what do you have to lose? Somebody said, oh, that's not a nice lose.
Somebody said, oh, that's not a nice lose. Somebody said, oh, that's not a nice thing. What do you have to lose? How can thing, what do you have to lose? How can thing? What do you have to lose? How can you be any more accurate than that, what you be any more accurate than that, what you be any more accurate than that?
What do you have to lose everywhere she goes? Do you have to lose everywhere she goes? Do you have to lose everywhere? She goes, scandal and failure, follow just look at scandal and failure, follow just look at scandal and failure, follow just look at what she did in upstate New York. She what she did in upstate New York.
She what she did in upstate New York, she promised 200,000 jobs and they ended up promised 200,000 jobs and they ended up promised 200,000 jobs. And they ended up losing jobs, who remembers, who is running, losing jobs, who remembers, who is running, losing jobs, who remembers, who is running for the Senate.
It was a total disaster for the Senate. It was a total disaster for the Senate. It was a total disaster. She said we're gonna bring jobs back it - she said we're gonna bring jobs back it - she said we're gonna bring jobs back. It was a don't see, didn't bring anything was a don't see, didn't bring anything was a don't see, didn't bring anything with ourselves.
The only people she with ourselves, the only people she with ourselves, the only people she delivers for are her donors, I'm gonna delivers for are her donors, I'm gonna delivers for are her donors, I'm gonna deliver for the American people I deliver for the American people I deliver for the American people, I promise, promise promise and I'm spending my money in this race and I'm spending my money in this race and I'm spending my money in this race folks.
I'm spending my money. I've got a folks, I'm spending my money. I've got a folks, I'm spending my money, I've got a lot of time energy and my money invested lot of time energy and my money invested lot of time energy and my money invested that's for sure. So that includes lifting the - so that includes lifting the - so that includes lifting the restrictions.
We have to do this on restrictions. We have to do this on restrictions. We have to do this on American energy, there's fifty trillion American energy, there's fifty trillion American energy. There's fifty trillion dollars of untapped energy reserves in dollars of untapped energy reserves in dollars of untapped energy reserves in our country.
And we're going to unlock our country and we're going to unlock our country and we're going to unlock that vast potential. That vast potential, that vast potential, that's going to be an amazing unlocking. That's going to be an amazing unlocking. That's going to be an amazing unlocking to believe me this one action alone will to believe me.
This one action alone will to believe me. This one action alone will raise the quality of life for tens of raise the quality of life for tens of raise. The quality of life for tens of millions of Americans will be a rich millions of Americans will be a rich millions of Americans will be a rich country.
Again, we'll start paying off our country again, we'll start paying off our country again, we'll start paying off. Our debt will lower your taxes. It's going to - debt will lower your taxes, it's going to - debt will lower your taxes. It's going to be a very beautiful thing to watch, be a very beautiful thing to watch, be a very beautiful thing to watch.
We're also going to completely reform. We're also going to completely reform. We're also going to completely reform our trade deals for Ford Motor Company. Our trade deals for Ford Motor Company, our trade deals for Ford Motor Company just announced they're moving all of just announced. They're moving all of just announced.
They're moving all of their small car division, their small car division, their small car division, they're moving. Where are they moving? They're moving. Where are they moving? They're moving. Where are they moving? They're moving to Mexico, they're moving to Mexico, they're moving to Mexico. This won't happen if I'm elected.
This won't happen if I'm elected. This won't happen. If I'm elected, president, believe me, people are not - president, believe me, people are not president, believe me, people are not going to be stealing our companies and going to be stealing our companies and going to be stealing our companies. And we're not going to be losing our jobs.
We're not going to be losing our jobs. We're not going to be losing our jobs. And if somebody like Ford or carrier or and if somebody like Ford or carrier or and if somebody like Ford or carrier or all of these thousands of companies that all of these thousands of companies that all of these thousands of companies that are moving.
If they think they're gonna are moving, if they think they're gonna are moving, if they think they're gonna move fire all of their employees, so we move fire all of their employees. So we move fire all of their employees. So we get unemployment that we get no tax, get unemployment that we get no tax, get unemployment that we get no tax, they're going to make the product and they're going to make the product and they're going to make the product and brand new plants is another Country brand new plants is another country, brand new plants is another country selling into our country again and selling into our country again and selling into our country again.
And remember this, it will not be grossing. A - remember this, it will not be grossing. A remember this, it will not be grossing a very, very strong boy, okay? We're going to very, very strong boy, okay? We're going to very, very strong boy, okay? We're going to charge them a 35 % tax from their product, charge them a 35 % tax from their product, charge them a 35 % tax from their product.
And you know what they're gonna say and you know what they're gonna say and you know what they're gonna say they're going to say we're not moving. They're going to say we're not moving. They're going to say we're not moving because we have to do that no longer because we have to do that no longer because we have to do that.
No longer makes sense to move and the politicians makes sense to move and the politicians makes sense to move. And the politicians could have done it, they could have done, could have done it, they could have done, could have done it, they could have done it. They don't want to do it because it - they don't want to do it because it - they don't want to do it because they're controlled by special interests.
They're controlled by special interests. They're controlled by special interests folks. It's very simple. Meanwhile, if we folks, it's very simple. Meanwhile, if we folks, it's very simple. Meanwhile, if we just stop China from stealing our - just stop China from stealing our just stop China from stealing our intellectual property alone, we'd say two intellectual property alone.
We'd say two intellectual property alone, we'd say two million jobs a year. We don't even talk million jobs a year. We don't even talk million jobs a year. We don't even talk to China about it right now to China about it right now to China about it. Right now, our trade deficit in goods all over the - our trade deficit in goods all over the - our trade deficit in goods all over the world is nearly 800 billion dollars.
A world is nearly 800 billion dollars a world is nearly 800 billion dollars a year. Think of it who makes easiest what year think of it who makes easiest, what year think of it who makes easiest. What makes these this - we have a trade deficit makes these this - we have a trade deficit makes these this - we have a trade deficit of 800 billion dollars a year and then of 800 billion dollars a year and then of 800 billion dollars a year.
And then they say I'm against strength. While I'm - they say I'm against strength. While I'm - they say I'm against strength. While I'm against deals like that, I can tell you against deals like that, I can tell you against deals like that, I can tell you you better work. I need you better off you better work.
I need you better off you better work. I need you better off without it. This subtracts from our GDP without it, this subtracts from our GDP without it. This subtracts from our GDP, our economy pooling 1.1 percent to the - our economy pooling 1.1 percent to the - our economy pooling 1.1 percent to the last water.
And that's a catastrophe if last water and that's a catastrophe if last water and that's a catastrophe. If China goes down to 7 or 8 percent, it's - China goes down to 7 or 8 percent. It's China goes down to 7 or 8 percent. It's like a national emergency. We have one like a national emergency. We have one like a national emergency.
We have one point, one percentage to the fact this is point one percentage to the fact this is point one percentage to the fact this is the weakness self called recovery since the weakness self called recovery since the weakness self called recovery since the Great Depression. The Great Depression, the Great Depression, another 14 million people have left, the another 14 million people have left.
The another 14 million people have left the workforce and entirely it all came in workforce and entirely it all came in workforce and entirely it all came in entirely since President Obama came into entirely since President Obama came into entirely since President Obama came into office office Office, another major reform is going to be another major reform is going to be another major reform is going to be school jobs, school jobs, school jobs.
I've out what I could plan to provide. I've out what I could plan to provide. I've out what I could plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America to every disadvantaged child in America to every disadvantaged child in America to choose the private public magnet or choose the private public magnet or choose the private public magnet or religious school of his or Her choice, religious school of his or her choice religious school of his or her choice.
For those of you that believe in for those of you that believe in for those of you that believe in education like I do education like I do education like I do, this will output millions of this will output millions of this will output millions of african-american And Hispanic children, african-american and Hispanic children, african-american and Hispanic children out of poverty since President Obama out of poverty.
Since President Obama out of poverty. Since President Obama came into office, another 2 million came into office, another 2 million came into office. Another 2 million Hispanic Americans have fallen into Hispanic Americans have fallen into Hispanic Americans have fallen into poverty, poverty, poverty. This is unacceptable to the Hispanic.
This is unacceptable to the Hispanic. This is unacceptable to the Hispanic community. I say we are going to protect community. I say we are going to protect community. I say we are going to protect your jobs. We are going to build up your - your jobs. We are going to build up your - your jobs, we are going to build up your schools and we are going to deliver schools and we are going to deliver schools and we are going to deliver safety and opportunity to your children safety and opportunity to your children Safety and opportunity to your children and he deserved and he deserved and he deserved earlier this week, along with my daughter earlier this week, along with my daughter earlier this week along with my daughter, Ivanka.
I'm also - well, it's got a great heart. And I will tell it's got a great heart and I will tell it's got a great heart. And I will tell you, I also rolled out a plan to help our you. I also rolled out a plan to help our - you. I also rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable.
Mothers and our families get affordable, mothers and our families get affordable childcare, a married couple earning childcare, a married couple earning childcare, a married couple earning $ 50,000 per year with two children. And $ 50,000 per year with two children and $ 50,000 per year with two children and $ 8,000 in childcare instructors will $ 8,000 in childcare instructors will $ 8,000 in childcare.
Instructors will save 35 % from their current tax code, a save 35 % from their current tax code. A save 35 % from their current tax code. A married couple are in $ 75,000 per year married, couple are in $ 75,000 per year married, couple are in $ 75,000 per year with two children and $ 10,000 to child with two children and $ 10,000 to child with two children and $ 10,000 to child Care test will receive a 30 % reduction.
Care test will receive a 30 % reduction. Care test will receive a 30 % reduction in your textbook millions of low-income. In your textbook, millions of low-income in your textbook, millions of low-income people will be removed from the tax people will be removed from the tax people will be removed from the tax rolls entirely.
A trump administration rolls entirely a trump administration rolls entirely. A trump administration will deliver every American, three things will deliver every American. Three things will deliver every American. Three things, a great economy, a safe country and an a great economy, a safe country and an a great economy, a safe country and an honest government free of corruption, honest government, free of corruption, honest government, free of corruption.
We're going to get rid of. I'm going to reduce taxes, Bigler, we are, I'm going to reduce taxes, Bigler, we are, I'm going to reduce taxes, Bigler, we are going to reduce taxes and by the way going to reduce taxes and by the way going to reduce taxes and by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise your Hillary Clinton is going to raise your Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes very, very substantial.
We're going to reduce that, eliminate we're going to reduce that, eliminate we're going to reduce that, eliminate horrible regulations, unleash American horrible regulations, unleash American horrible regulations, unleash American energy, appoint the great judges, save the energy, appoint the great judges, save the energy appoint the great judges, Save the Second Amendment, reduce crime, create Second Amendment, reduce crime, create Second Amendment, reduce crime, create school choice and illegal immigration, school choice and illegal immigration, school choice and illegal immigration and renegotiate our terrible trade deals and renegotiate our terrible trade deals and renegotiate our terrible trade Deals to put Americans back to work and to put to put Americans back to work and to put to put Americans back to work and to put Americans first, Americans first Americans first.
We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, we will rebuild our roads, our bridges, we will rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our highways, airports, our tunnels, our highways, airports, our tunnels, our highways, airports, schools and hospitals. American cars will schools and hospitals, American cars will schools and hospitals.
American cars will travel the roads, American planes will travel the roads, American planes will travel the roads, American planes will soar the skies and American ships will soar the skies and American ships will soar the skies and American ships will control the seas. American steel will control. The seas American steel will control the seas.
American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds, send new skyscrapers into the clouds, send new skyscrapers into the clouds that includes Denver's, perhaps a very - that includes Denver's perhaps a very - that includes Denver's perhaps a very nice guy, straight American hands will nice guy, straight American Hands will nice guy, straight American hands will rebuild the station, an American energy rebuild the station, an American energy rebuild.
The station, an American energy mine from American sources will power mine from American sources. Will power mine from American sources will power this nation. American workers will be this nation, American workers will be this nation, American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new hired to do the job.
We will put new hired to do the job. We will put new American steel into the sign of our American steel into the sign of our American steel into the sign of our country. I was fighting for every country I was fighting for every country. I was fighting for every neglected part of this nation. And I will neglected part of this nation and I will neglected part of this nation and I will fight to bring us all together United in fight to bring us all together United in fight to bring us all together United in common purpose and common dreams.
And common purpose and common dreams and common purpose and common dreams and imagine what our country could imagine what our country could imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working accomplish. If we started working accomplish, if we started working together as one people under one God together as one people under one God together as one people under one God saluting one American flag, saluting one American flag, saluting one American flag.
It's time to break with the bitter. It's time to break with the bitter. It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past. It's time to just we have to break. We - it's time to just - we have to break. We - it's time to just - we have to break. We have to break with those things. We have have to break with those things.
We have have to break with those things. We have so many vetted, you know, think of it. We so many vetted, you know, think of it. We so many vetted, you know, think of it, we don't want any more folks where do we don't want any more folks where do we don't want any more folks where do we win? We don't win.
We don't waiting with win. We don't win. We don't waiting with win. We don't win. We don't waiting with crime. We don't win with schools. We don't crime. We don't win with schools. We don't crime. We don't win with schools. We don't win with rain. Our military's depleted win with rain. Our military's depleted win with rain our military's depleted our vets aren't being treated properly.
Our vets aren't being treated properly. Our vets aren't being treated properly and we are going to treat our vets and we are going to treat our vets and we are going to treat our vets. We lose without here. We don't win, we lose without here. We don't win, we lose without here. We don't win anymore anymore anymore.
We don't win. Our military can't beat. We don't win our military can't beat. We don't win our military, can't beat Isis. Can you imagine the great General Isis? Can you imagine the great General Isis? Can you imagine the great General Douglas, the gondola or the great General Douglas, the gondola or the great General Douglas, the gondola or the great General George Patton saying we can't beat us that would rip your heart out of the - that would rip your heart out of The that would rip your heart out of the other side, other side, other side, we can't be two.
You imagine that can you - we can't be two. You imagine that can you - we can't be two. You imagine that can you imagine what the - they're spinning right? Imagine what the - they're spinning right, imagine what the - they're spinning right now. They're watching. They're spinning in now. They're watching.
They're spinning in now. They're watching. They're spinning in the grave, the grave, the grave. And so often don't ask me how do you and so often don't ask me how do you and so often don't ask me how do you defeat. I said you know what, I have a defeat. I said you know what, I have a defeat. I said you know what, I have a real chance of winning.
I don't want to real chance of winning. I don't want to real chance of winning. I don't want to tell the enemy. How I am, Vicki, does that tell the enemy? How I am - Vicki, does that tell the enemy how I am - Vicki, does that make sense, make sense, make sense, imagine General Douglas, forgot their imagine General Douglas, forgot their imagine General Douglas forgot their saying and a discount.
Well, that's a very saying and a discount well that's a very saying and a discount well, that's a very good question, Jim. We're gonna hit it. Good question, Jim. We're gonna hit it. Good question, Jim. We're gonna hit it from the front on October 7 and 3 from the front on October 7 and 3 from the front on October 7 and 3 o'clock in the afternoon.
And then we're o'clock in the afternoon and then we're o'clock in the afternoon. And then we're going to attack them from the back if we going to attack them from the back if we going to attack them from the back if we do well from the front. But by that time do well from the front. But by that time do well from the front, but by that time the front is still well fortified.
We may - the front is still well fortified. We may - the front is still well fortified, we may not do as well, okay. Now can you imagine not do as well, okay, now can you imagine not do as well. Okay. Now can you imagine these people? I will give you good results, don't worry. I will give you good results.
Don't worry. I will give you good results. Don't worry how I get there. Okay, please. How I get there. Okay, please. How I get there. Okay, please. We had a class today an absolute cloud. We had a class today an absolute cloud. We had a class today an absolute cloud rock with gates. He's supposed to be a rock with gates.
He's supposed to be a rock with gates. He's supposed to be a next bitch been there forever. Next bitch been there forever. Next bitch been there forever. By the way. He writes a book, he says bad, by the way, he writes a book. He says bad. By the way, he writes a book. He says bad about everybody that he's worked for about everybody that he's worked for about everybody that he's worked for.
It's been there for a long time. It's been there for a long time. It's been there for a long time. Everybody did his work for his guy. He's everybody did his work for his guy. He's everybody did his work for his guy. He's a nasty guy, probably has a problem that a nasty guy probably has a problem that a nasty guy probably has a problem that we don't know about.
We don't know about, we don't know about. But he said nasty guy and he spoke badly. But he said nasty guy and he spoke badly, but he said nasty guy and he spoke badly about MA. She spoke badly about her, about MA. She spoke badly about her, about MA. She spoke badly about her mother's family about it, never met the mother's family about it, never met the mother's family about it, never met the guy, never saw her.
My - some intelligence guy never saw her. My - some intelligence guy never saw her. My - some intelligence didn't like her. The end result was - look, didn't like her. The end result was - look, didn't like her. The end result was look where we are. He's a mess, okay? He's the - where we are. He's a mess, okay?
He's the - where we are. He's a mess, okay, he's the best. So he goes out and he says negative best. So he goes out and he says negative best. So he goes out and he says negative things about me. I never met him. I never things about me. I never met him. I never things about me, I never met him. I never talked to him.
Believe me, I am so much talked to him. Believe me, I am so much talked to him. Believe me, I am so much better at what he's doing than he is you better at. What he's doing than he is you better at what he's doing than he is - you won't even believe it won't even believe it won't even believe it. Look what he gave us look at the best of look what he gave us.
Look at the best of look what he gave us, look at the best of all of these people that have been there, all of these people that have been there, all of these people that have been there for so many years for so many years for so Many years look what we have looked at the Middle, look what we have looked at the Middle look what we have looked at the Middle East, if we never touched him, we would East, if we never touched him, we would East, if we never touched him, we Would have been a hell of a lot better off, have been a hell of a lot better off, have been a hell of a lot better off than we are right now.
What a shame than we are right now, what a shame than we are right now. What a shame all of the money, but most importantly all of the money, but most importantly all of the money, but most importantly the blood that death and why don't ya the blood that death and why don't ya the blood that death and why don't ya now Were worse shape than we were 15 now were worse shape than we were.
15 now were worse shape than we were 15 years ago by a factor of 10. And we've years ago by a factor of 10 and we've years ago by a factor of 10. And we've spent six trillion dollars, six trillion, spent, six trillion dollars, six trillion spent, six trillion dollars, six trillion. That seems to be the new number six.
That seems to be the new number six, that seems to be the new number six trillion. Much more importantly, the lives trillion, much more importantly, the lives trillion, much more importantly the lives that we've lost because we're dealing that we've lost because we're dealing that we've lost because we're dealing with the competent people.
We're dealing with the competent people. We're dealing with the competent people. We're dealing with stupid people, we're dealing with with stupid people. We're dealing with, with stupid people. We're dealing with people like Robert Gates that don't have people like Robert Gates that don't have people like Robert Gates that don't have a clue.
And then when they leave office a clue and then when they leave office a clue and then when they leave office, they criticize everybody, they criticize everybody, they criticize everybody. I don't like - Chris, I don't like critics, I don't like - Chris, I don't like critics, I don't like - Chris, I don't like critics, I like the people that get it done and I like the people that get it done and I like the people that get it Done and get it done.
Get it done, get it done right, right, right? We need to create a new inclusive and we need to create a new inclusive and we need to create a new inclusive and prosperous future. We can do that jobs prosperous future. We can do that jobs prosperous future. We can do that. Jobs will return, it comes will rise and new will return, it comes will rise and new will return.
It comes will rise and new factories will come rushing back to our factories, will come rushing back to our factories, will come rushing back to our shores. That's all we have to have what's shores. That's all we have to have what's shores. That's all we have to have, what's more we will have a government of By and more we will have a government of By and more we will have a government of By and For the People, For the People, For the People we will make America wealthy again.
We - we will make America wealthy again, we - we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will will make America strong again. We will will make America strong again. We will make America safe again and we will make make America safe again and we will make make America safe again and we will make America great.