Donald Trump|Speech: Donald Trump in Monessen, PA|June 28, 2016
[This was transcribed and punctuated by Factba.se's AI, Margaret, and automatically corrected based on her understanding of Donald Trump's speech patterns. It has not been edited by a human. Please double-check any quotes against the video.]
Thank Greg Santorum, our senator great thank Greg Santorum, our senator great thank Greg Santorum, our senator great senator for being here and for the senator for being here and for the senator for being here and for the endorsement. We really appreciate it and endorsement. We really appreciate it and endorsement, we really appreciate it.
And I have to say all of the amazing workers. I have to say all of the amazing workers. I have to say all of the amazing workers gapes at their the most important, the gapes at their - the most important, the gapes at their the most important, the amazing workers. And I know you've been amazing workers and I know you've been amazing workers and I know you've been through some very, very tough times, but through some very, very tough times, but through some very, very tough times.
But we're going to make it better. And we're - we're going to make it better and we're - we're going to make it better and we're gonna make it better fast, okay? Just gonna make it better fast, okay, just gonna make it better fast, okay, just watch. So today I'm going to talk about watch. So today I'm going to talk about watch.
So today I'm going to talk about how to make America wealthy again have how to make America wealthy again have how to make America wealthy again have to do it with 30 miles from Steel City to do it with 30 miles from Steel City to do it With 30 miles from Steel City, Pittsburgh played a central role in Pittsburgh, played a central role in Pittsburgh, played a central role in building our nation, the legacy of building our nation, the legacy of building our nation, the legacy of Pennsylvania steel workers lives in the Pennsylvania Steel workers lives in the Pennsylvania steel workers, lives in the bridges, railways and skyscrapers that bridges railways and skyscrapers that bridges, railways and skyscrapers that make up our great American landscape, but make up our great American landscape but make up our great American landscape.
But our work is loyalty was repaid, you know, our work is loyalty was repaid. You know, our work is loyalty was repaid, you know it better than anybody with total it better than anybody with total it better than anybody with total betrayal. Our politicians have betrayal our politicians have betrayal. Our politicians have aggressively pursued a policy of aggressively pursued a policy of aggressively pursued a policy of globalization, moving our jobs, our wealth globalization, moving our jobs, our wealth globalization, moving our jobs, our wealth and our factories to Mexico.
And overseas and our factories to Mexico and overseas and our factories to Mexico and overseas, globalization has made the financial globalization has made the financial globalization has made the financial elite who donate to politicians very elite who donate to politicians very elite who donate to politicians very, Very wealthy, I used to be one of them, hate to say it, but I used to be one, but hate to say it, but I used to be one, but hate to say it, but I used to be one, but it's left millions of our workers with.
It's left millions of our workers with - it's left millions of our workers with nothing but poverty and heartache when nothing but poverty and heartache when nothing but poverty and heartache when subsidized foreign steel is dumped into subsidized foreign steel is dumped into subsidized foreign steel is dumped Into our markets threatening our factories, our markets threatening our factories, our markets threatening our factories, the politicians have proven folks have the politicians have proven folks, have the politicians have proven folks have proven, they do nothing for years.
They proven they do nothing for years. They proven they do nothing for years. They watched on the sidelines as our jobs watched on the sidelines as our jobs watched on the sidelines as our jobs vanished and our communities were vanished and our communities were vanished and our communities were plunged into depression level plunged into depression level plunged into depression level.
Unemployment, many of these areas have unemployment. Many of these areas have unemployment. Many of these areas have still never recovered and never will. Still never recovered and never will. Still never recovered and never will. Unless I become president, then they're gonna recover fast, our - then they're gonna recover fast.
Our - then they're gonna recover fast. Our politicians took away from the people - politicians took away from the people, politicians took away from the people, their means of making a living and their means of making a living and their means of making a living and supporting their families, skilled, supporting their families, skilled supporting Their families, skilled, craftsmen and tradespeople and factory, craftsmen and tradespeople and factory, craftsmen and tradespeople and factory workers have seen the jobs they love.
Workers have seen the jobs they love. Workers have seen the jobs. They love shipped thousands and thousands of miles shipped. Thousands and thousands of miles shipped, thousands and thousands of miles away away away. Many Pennsylvania towns once thriving many Pennsylvania towns once thriving. Many Pennsylvania towns once thriving and humming are now in a state of total and humming are now in a state of total and humming are now in a state of total disrepair.
This wave of globalization has disrepair. This wave of globalization has disrepair. This wave of globalization has wiped out totally totally our middle wiped out totally totally our middle wiped out totally totally our middle class. It doesn't have to be this way we class it doesn't have to be this way we class it doesn't have to be this way.
We can turn it around and we can turn - it can turn it around and we can turn - it can turn it around and we can turn it around fast, but if we're going to around fast, but if we're going to around fast. But if we're going to deliver real change, we're going to have deliver real change. We're going to have deliver real change.
We're going to have to reject the campaign of fear and to reject the campaign of fear and to reject the campaign of fear and intimidation being pursued by powerful intimidation being pursued by powerful intimidation being pursued by powerful corporations, media elites and political corporations, media elites and Political corporations, media elites and political dynasties the people who rigged the dynasties, the people who rigged the dynasties, the people who rigged the system for their benefit will do system for their benefit will do system for their benefit, will do anything and say anything to keep things.
Anything and say anything to keep things anything and say anything to keep things exactly the way they are. The people who exactly the way they are, the people who exactly the way they are, the people who rigged the system are supporting, Hillary rigged, the system are supporting. Hillary rigged, the system are supporting Hillary Clinton because they know as long as she Clinton because they know as long as she Clinton because they know as long as she is in charge, nothing's going to change is in charge.
Nothing's going to change is in charge. Nothing's going to change, the inner cities will remain poor. The - the inner cities will remain poor. The - the inner cities will remain poor. The factories will remain closed, the borders factories will remain closed, the borders factories will remain closed, the borders will remain open.
The special interest will remain open, the special interest will remain open. The special interest will remain firmly in control. Hillary will remain firmly in control. Hillary will remain firmly in control, Hillary Clinton and her friends and global Clinton and her friends and global Clinton and her friends.
And global finance want to scare America into finance, want to scare America into finance, want to scare America into thinking small and they want to scare thinking small and they want to scare thinking small and they want to scare American people out of voting for the American People out of voting for the American people out of voting for the better future and you have a great, better future and you have a great, better future and you have a great future folks, you have a great future future folks, you have a great future future Folks, you have a great future.
These people have given her tens of these people have given her tens of these people have given her tens of millions of dollars. My campaign has the millions of dollars. My campaign has the millions of dollars. My campaign has the absolute opposite message. I want you to absolute opposite message. I want you to absolute opposite message.
I want you to imagine a much better life. Imagine a much better life, imagine a much better life and a life where you can believe in the - and a life where you can believe in the - and a life where you can believe in the American Dream. Again right now you can't American Dream again right now. You can't American Dream again right now, you can't do that.
I want you to imagine how much better I want you to imagine how much better I want you to imagine how much better our future can be if we declare our future can be. If we declare our future can be if we declare independence from the elites who led us independence from the elites who led us independence from the elites who led us from one financial and foreign policy from one financial and foreign policy from one financial and foreign policy Disaster to another, our friends in disaster to another, our friends in disaster to another.
Our friends in Britain recently voted to take back Britain recently voted to take back Britain recently voted to take back control of their economy, politics and control of their economy, politics and control. Of their economy, politics and borders, I was on the right side of that borders. I was on the right side of that borders.
I was on the right side of that issue. As you know with the people I was issue as you know with the people I was issue as you know with the people I was there. I said it was going to happen there. I said it was going to happen there. I said it was going to happen. I felt it while Hillary as always stood, I felt it.
While Hillary as always stood, I felt it. While Hillary, as always stood with the elites and both she and with the elites and both she and with the elites and both she and President Obama predicted that one and President Obama predicted that one and President Obama predicted that one and many others totally wrong.
Now it's time many others totally wrong. Now it's time many others totally wrong. Now it's time for the American people to take back for the American people to take back for the American people to take back their future, their future, their future gonna take it back. That's the choice we gonna take it back.
That's the choice we gonna take it back. That's the choice we face we can either give in to Hillary face. We can either give in to Hillary face. We can either give in to Hillary Clinton's campaign of fear or we can Clinton's campaign of fear or we can Clinton's campaign of fear or we can choose to believe again in America.
Very sadly, we lost our way when we very sadly we lost our way when we very sadly, we lost our way when we stopped believing in our country. America stopped believing in our country. America stopped believing in our country. America became the world's dominant economy by became the world's dominant economy by became the world's dominant economy.
By becoming the world's dominant producer, becoming the world's dominant producer, becoming the world's dominant producer. You know that from right here, right in, you know that from right here, right in, you know that from right here, right in this plant, the wealth is created were this plant, the wealth is created were this plant, the wealth is created, were shared broadly creating the Biggest shared broadly creating the biggest shared broadly, creating the biggest middle class the world has ever known middle class.
The world has ever known middle class the world has ever known, but then America changed this policy, but then America changed this policy. But then America changed this policy from promoting development in America in from promoting development in America in from promoting development in America in - in, in America to promoting development in, in America to promoting development in, in America to promoting development in other nations.
That's what's happening in other nations, that's what's happening in other nations. That's what's happening and that's what's happened. We allowed - and that's what's happened we allowed - and that's what's happened. We allowed foreign countries to subsidize their foreign countries to subsidize their foreign countries to subsidize their goods, devalue their currencies, violate goods, devalue their currencies, violate goods, devalue their currencies, violate their agreements and cheat in every way their agreements and cheat in every way their agreements and Cheat in every way imaginable and our politicians did imaginable and our politicians did imaginable and our politicians did nothing about it.
Nothing about it, nothing about it, trillions of our dollars and millions of trillions of our dollars and millions of trillions of our dollars and millions of our jobs flowed overseas. As a result, I - our jobs flowed overseas as a result. I - our jobs flowed overseas. As a result. I have visited cities and towns across have visited cities and towns across have visited cities and towns across this country where a third or even half this country where a third or even half this country where a third or even half of manufacturing jobs have been wiped.
Of manufacturing jobs have been wiped of manufacturing jobs have been wiped out in the last 20 years out in the last 20 years out in the last 20 years. Today, we import nearly 800 billion more. Today, we import nearly 800 billion more. Today, we import nearly 800 billion more in goods than we export. Can't continue in goods than we export, can't continue in goods than we export.
Can't continue to do that. This is not some natural to do that. This is not some natural to do that. This is not some natural disaster, it's a political and politician disaster, it's a political and politician disaster. It's a political and politician made disaster, very simple and it can be made disaster very simple and it can be made disaster very simple and it can be corrected.
And we can correct it fast corrected and we can correct it fast corrected and we can correct it fast when we have people with the right when we have people with the right when we have people with the right thinking right up here. It is the thinking right up here. It is the thinking right up here. It is the consequence.
It is the consequence of a leadership. It is the consequence of a leadership. It is the consequence of a leadership class that worships Lobel ISM / class that worships Lobel ISM / class that worships Lobel ISM / Americanism. This is a direct affront to Americanism. This is a direct affront to Americanism.
This is a direct affront to our founding fathers who America wanted, our founding fathers, who America wanted, our founding fathers, who America wanted to be strong. They wanted this country to, to be strong. They wanted this country to, to be strong. They wanted this country to be strong and they wanted to be be strong and they wanted to be be strong and they wanted to be independent and they wanted it to be independent and they wanted it to be independent and they wanted it to be free.
Our founding fathers, understood free, our founding fathers, understood free, our founding fathers understood trade much better than our current trade, much better than our current trade, much better than our current politicians. Believe me, George, Washington politicians, believe me, George, Washington politicians, believe me, George Washington said that the promotion of domestic said that the promotion of domestic said that the promotion of domestic manufacturing will be among the first manufacturing will be among the first.
Manufacturing will be among the first consequences to flow from an energetic consequences to flow from an energetic consequences to flow from an energetic government. Alexander Hamilton spoke, government, Alexander Hamilton spoke, government, Alexander Hamilton spoke frequently of the Expediency of frequently of the Expediency of frequently of the Expediency of encouraging manufacturing in, in, in the encouraging manufacturing in - in, in the encouraging manufacturing in, in, in the United States.
And listen to this, the first Republican and listen to this, the first Republican and listen to this, the first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, warned that President Abraham Lincoln, warned that President Abraham Lincoln, warned that quote the abandonment of the protective, quote, the abandonment of the protective quote.
The abandonment of the protective policy by the American government will policy by the American government will policy by the American government will produce, want and ruin among our people, produce, want and ruin among our people, produce, want and ruin among our people. He understood it much better than our - he understood it much better than our - he understood it much better than our current politicians.
That's why he was current politicians. That's why he was current politicians. That's why he was Abraham Lincoln. I guess our original Constitution did not even our original Constitution did not even our original Constitution did not even have an income tax. Instead it had have an income tax instead it had have an income tax instead it had terrorists emphasizing taxation of terrorists emphasizing taxation of terrorists emphasizing taxation of foreign, not domestic production, yet foreign not domestic production yet foreign not domestic production.
Yet today, two hundred and forty years after today two hundred and forty years after today two hundred and forty years after the Revolution, we've turned things the Revolution. We've turned things the Revolution, we've turned things completely upside-down we tax and completely upside-down we tax and completely upside-down.
We tax and regulate and restrict our companies to regulate and restrict our companies to regulate and restrict our companies to death. And then we allow foreign death and then we allow foreign death. And then we allow foreign countries that cheat to export their countries that cheat to export their countries that cheat to export their goods to us tax-free how stupid is this goods to us tax-free, how stupid is this goods to us tax-free, how stupid is this?
How can it happen, how stupid is this as how can it happen? How stupid is this as how can it happen? How stupid is this? As a result, we have become more dependent a result we have become more dependent a result. We have become more dependent on foreign countries than ever before on foreign countries than ever before on foreign countries than ever before.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to ladies and gentlemen, it's time to ladies and gentlemen. It's time to declare our economic independence once declare. Our economic independence once declare our economic independence once again that means that means voting for Donald Trump. I'll - that means voting for Donald Trump.
I'll - that means voting for Donald Trump. I'll do it. No doubt about it, not even a do it. No doubt about it. Not even a do it, no doubt about it, not even a little doubt. It also means reversing two little doubt. It also means reversing two little doubt. It also means reversing two of the worst legacies of the Clinton of the worst legacies of the Clinton of the worst legacies of the Clinton years.
America has lost nearly one-third years. America has lost nearly one-third years. America has lost nearly one-third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997 of its manufacturing jobs since 1997 of its manufacturing jobs since 1997. Even as the country has increased this even as the country has increased this even as the country has increased this population.
Think of this by 50 million population, think of this by 50 million population. Think of this by 50 million people at the center of this catastrophe. People at the center of this catastrophe. People at the center of this catastrophe are two trade deals pushed by Bill and are two trade deals pushed by Bill and are two trade deals pushed by Bill and Hillary Clinton.
First, the North American Hillary Clinton, first, the North American Hillary Clinton. First, the North American Free Trade Agreement or the disaster Free Trade Agreement or the disaster Free Trade Agreement or the disaster called NAFTA. Second, China's entry into called NAFTA second China's entry into called NAFTA second China's entry into the World Trade Organization.
NAFTA was the World Trade Organization, NAFTA was the World Trade Organization. NAFTA was the worst trade deal in the history. It's the worst trade deal in the history. It's the worst trade deal in the history. It's like the history of this country and like the history of this country and like the history of this country and China's entrance into the World, Trade China's entrance into the World, Trade China's entrance into the World Trade Organization has enabled the greatest Organization has enabled the Greatest Organization has enabled the greatest job theft in the history of our country, job theft in the history of our country, job theft in the history of our country.
It was Bill Clinton, who signed NAFTA. It was Bill Clinton, who signed NAFTA. It was Bill Clinton, who signed NAFTA. People don't remember in 1993 and people don't remember in 1993. And people don't remember in 1993. And Hillary Clinton, who supported it and the Hillary Clinton who supported it and the Hillary Clinton who supported it and the havoc that it wreaked after he left havoc that it wreaked after he left havoc that it wreaked after he left office was unbelievable.
It was also - Bill office was unbelievable. It was also - Bill office was unbelievable. It was also Bill Clinton, who lobbied for China's Clinton, who lobbied for China's Clinton, who lobbied for China's disastrous entry into the World Trade disastrous entry into the World, Trade disastrous entry into the World Trade Organization and Hillary Clinton, who Organization and Hillary Clinton, who Organization.
And Hillary Clinton, who backed that terrible, terrible agreement backed that terrible, terrible agreement backed that terrible, terrible agreement. Then as Secretary of State Hillary, then as Secretary of State Hillary, then as Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton stood by idly, while China Clinton stood by idly, while China Clinton stood by idly, while China cheated on its currency added another cheated on its currency.
Added another cheated on its currency, added another trillion dollars to our trade deficits, trillion dollars to our trade deficits, trillion dollars to our trade deficits and stole hundreds of billions of and stole hundreds of billions of and stole hundreds of billions of dollars in our intellectual property.
And I've been talking about China for - and I've been talking about China for - and I've been talking about China for many years and you know what, nobody many years and you know what, nobody many years and you know what, nobody listened, but they're listening now that listened. But they're listening now that listened, but they're listening now that I can tell you the city of Pittsburgh, I can tell you the city of Pittsburgh, I can tell you the city of Pittsburgh and the state of Pennsylvania have lost and the state of Pennsylvania have lost.
And the state of Pennsylvania have lost one-third of their manufacturing jobs, one-third of their manufacturing jobs, one-third of their manufacturing jobs since the Clintons put China into the - since the Clintons put China into the - since the Clintons put China into the WTO. Fifty thousand factories across WTO. Fifty thousand factories across WTO, fifty thousand factories across America have shut their doors in that America have shut their doors in that America have shut their doors in that time.
And this factory, because of your time and this factory because of your time and this factory, because of your great owners, Gabe and Gloria, it's great owners, Gabe and Gloria, it's great owners, Gabe and Gloria. It's hanging in hanging in, but they just told hanging in hanging in, but they just told hanging in hanging in.
But they just told me it's not easy, almost half of our me, it's not easy, almost half of our me, it's not easy. Almost half of our entire manufacturing trade deficit in entire manufacturing trade deficit in entire manufacturing trade deficit in goods with the world as a result and goods with the world as a result and goods with the world as a result and it's the result of trade with China, it's the result of trade with China.
It's the result of trade with China. It was also Hillary Clinton as Secretary. It was also Hillary Clinton as Secretary. It was also Hillary Clinton as Secretary of State, who shoved us into a of State, who shoved us into a of State, who shoved us into a job-killing deal with South Korea as job-killing deal with South Korea as job-killing deal with South Korea as reported by the Economic Policy reported by the Economic Policy reported by the Economic Policy Institute in May this deal Institute in May this deal Institute in May this deal doubled our trade deficit with South doubled our trade deficit with South doubled our trade deficit with South Korea and destroyed nearly 100,000, Korea and destroyed nearly 100,000 Korea and destroyed nearly 100,000 American jobs.
As Bernie Sanders said, American jobs as Bernie Sanders said, American jobs. As Bernie Sanders said, Hillary Clinton voted for virtually Hillary Clinton voted for virtually Hillary Clinton voted for virtually every trade agreement that has cost the every trade agreement that has cost the every trade agreement that has cost the workers of this country, millions workers of this country, Millions workers of this country, millions millions of jobs, trade reform and the negotiation of trade reform and the negotiation of trade reform and the negotiation of great trade deals is the quickest way to great trade deals is the quickest way to great trade deals is the quickest Way to bring our jobs back to our country to bring our jobs back to our country, to bring our jobs back to our country to understand why trade reform creates jobs, understand why trade reform creates jobs, understand why trade reform creates jobs and it creates a lot Of them we need to and it creates a lot of them we need to and it creates a lot of them.
We need to understand how all nations grow and understand how all nations grow and understand how all nations grow and prosper. Massive trade deficits subtract, prosper massive trade deficits, subtract prosper massive trade deficits, subtract directly from our gross domestic product directly from our gross domestic product directly from our gross domestic product from 1947 to 2001, a span of over five from 1947 to 2001, a span of over Five from 1947 to 2001 a span of over five decades, our inflation adjusted gross decades our inflation adjusted gross decades, our inflation adjusted gross domestic product grew at a rate of 3.5 %. Domestic product grew at a rate of 3.5 %. Domestic product grew at a rate of 3.5 %. However, since 2002, the year after we however, since 2002 the year after we - however, since 2002, the year after we fully opened our markets to Chinese fully opened our markets to Chinese fully opened our markets to Chinese imports.
That GDP growth rate has been imports, that GDP growth rate has been imports, that GDP growth rate has been cut in half. What does this mean for cut in half? What does this mean for cut in half? What does this mean for Americans not good for every 1 % of GDP Americans not good for every 1 % of GDP. Americans not good for every 1 % of GDP growth we failed to generate in any growth we failed to generate in any growth.
We failed to generate in any given year we also fail to create over 1 given year we also fail to create over 1. Given year we also fail to create over 1 million jobs, what a waste million jobs, what a waste million jobs, what a waste and what a sad sad thing. America's job creation deficit due to America's job creation deficit due to America's job creation deficit due to slower growth since 2002 is well over 20. Slower growth since 2002 is well over 20. Slower growth since 2002 is well over 20 million jobs and that's just about the million jobs and that's just about the million jobs and that's just about the number of jobs our country needs, right, number of jobs, our country needs, right, number of jobs our country needs Right now to put America back to work at now to put America back to work at now to put America back to work at decent wages, wages are very low because decent wages, wages are very low because decent wages, wages are very low because there's no competition.
And they're gonna, there's no competition and they're gonna, there's no competition and they're gonna go up because we're going to thrive go up because we're going to thrive go up because we're going to thrive again as a country. The trans-pacific, again as a country, the trans-pacific, again as a country, the trans-pacific partnership is the greatest danger yet.
Partnership is the greatest danger yet partnership is the greatest danger. Yet the TPP as it's known would be the death. The TPP as it's known would be the death. The TPP as it's known would be the death blow for American manufacturing. It would blow for American manufacturing, it would blow for American manufacturing.
It would give up all of our economic leverage to give up all of our economic leverage to give up all of our economic leverage to an international commission that would an international commission that would an international commission that would put the interests of foreign countries, put the Interests of foreign countries put the interests of foreign countries above our own, it would further open our above our own.
It would further open our above our own. It would further open our markets to aggressive currency cheaters markets to aggressive currency cheaters markets to aggressive currency cheaters cheaters. That's what they are cheaters cheaters, that's what they are cheaters cheaters, that's what they are cheaters.
They're not playing by the rules. They're - they're not playing by the rules. They're - they're not playing by the rules. They're cheating. It would make it easier for our cheating. It would make it easier for our cheating. It would make it easier for our trading competitors to ship cheap trading competitors to ship cheap trading competitors to ship cheap subsidized goods into United States, subsidized goods into United States, subsidized goods into United States markets, while allowing foreign countries markets while allowing foreign countries markets while Allowing foreign countries to continue putting up barriers in front to continue putting up barriers in front to continue putting up barriers in front of our exports, which is what they do of our exports, which is what they do of our exports, which is what they do.
It's very hard to export to their - it's very hard to export to their - it's very hard to export to their countries. They make it very difficult. We countries, they make it very difficult. We countries, they make it very difficult. We on the other hand, come on in everybody on the other hand, come on in everybody on the other hand, come on in everybody come on in bad leadership.
The TPP would come on in bad leadership. The TPP would come on in bad leadership. The TPP would lower tariffs on foreign cars while lower tariffs on foreign cars, while lower tariffs on foreign cars while leaving in place the foreign practices leaving in place the foreign practices leaving in place the foreign practices that keep American cars from being sold that keep American Cars from being sold that keep American cars from being sold overseas.
That's not all mark my words overseas. That's not all mark my words overseas. That's not all mark. My words China will enter the TPP through the China, will enter the TPP through the China, will enter the TPP through the backdoor at a later date. They are backdoor at a later date. They are backdoor at a later date.
They are watching, they are studying, they're not watching, they are studying, they're not watching, they are studying, they're not in it now, but they're gonna be in it if in it now. But they're gonna be in it if in it now. But they're gonna be in it. If it's good, they'll be there by the way. If it's good, they'll be there by the way.
If it's good, they'll be there by the way. If it's no good, they'll pass same way. It's no good. They'll pass same way. It's no good they'll pass same way always is the agreement would also force always is the agreement would also force always is the agreement would also force American workers, American workers, American workers compete directly against workers from compete directly against workers, from compete directly against workers from Vietnam, one of the lowest wage countries, Vietnam, one of the lowest wage countries, Vietnam, one of the lowest wage countries on earth.
Not only will the TPP undermine on earth, not only will the TPP undermine on earth, not only will the TPP undermine our economy, but it will undermine our, our economy, but it will undermine our, our economy, but it will undermine our independence. That's what's happening. The independence, that's what's happening, the independence, that's what's happening the TPP creates a new International TPP, creates a new International TPP, creates a new International Commission that makes decisions the Commission that makes decisions, the Commission that makes decisions, the American people are no longer given the American People are no longer given the American people are no longer given the right to veto these Commission's are right to veto these Commission's are right to veto.
These Commission's are great for Hillary's Wall Street funders great for Hillary's. Wall Street funders great for Hillary's Wall Street funders who can spend vast amounts of money to who can spend vast amounts of money to who can spend vast amounts of money to influence the people on the Commission's influence.
The people on the Commission's influence the people. On the Commission's and the outcomes, it should be no and the outcomes, it should be no. And the outcomes, it should be no surprise then that Hillary Clinton surprise then that Hillary Clinton surprise then that Hillary Clinton, according to Bloomberg, took a leading - according to Bloomberg, took a leading - according to Bloomberg, took a leading part in drafting the trans-pacific part in drafting the Trans-pacific part in drafting the trans-pacific partnership partnership partnership, please remember that especially in please remember that especially in please remember that especially in November she praised or pushed the TPP on 45. She praised or pushed the TPP on 45. She praised or pushed the TPP on 45 separate occasions and even called it separate occasions and even called it separate occasions and even called it the gold standard.
Hillary Clinton was the gold standard. Hillary Clinton was the gold standard. Hillary Clinton was totally for the TPP. Just a short while totally for the TPP, just a short while totally for the TPP, just a short while ago, but when she saw my stance, which is ago, but when she saw my stance, which is ago.
But when she saw my stance, which is totally against she was shamed into totally against she was shamed into totally against, she was shamed into saying she would be against it too. And I saying she would be against it too. And I saying she would be against it too. And I will tell you it was the same shame that will tell you it was the same shame that will tell you it was the same shame that she had recently where she was sort of she had recently where she was sort of she had recently where She was sort of forced into saying radical Islamic forced into saying radical Islamic forced into saying radical Islamic terrorism, which he didn't want to say terrorism, which he didn't want to say terrorism, which he didn't want to say, but she was shamed into that.
But have no. But she was shamed into that, but have no - but she was shamed into that. But have no doubt that she will immediately improve doubt that she will immediately improve doubt that she will immediately improve it if it's put before her. And that is it. If it's put before her and that is it, if it's put before her and that is guaranteed guaranteed, she will do this guaranteed guaranteed.
She will do this guaranteed guaranteed. She will do this just as she's betrayed American workers just as she's betrayed American workers, just as she's betrayed, American workers for Wall Street and throughout for Wall Street and throughout for Wall Street and throughout throughout her career, her whole career throughout her career, her whole career Throughout her career, her whole career, she has betrayed the American worker.
She has betrayed the American worker. She has betrayed the American worker. She's trying to put on a good front now. She's trying to put on a good front now. She's trying to put on a good front. Now she will betray you again her career and she will betray you again her career and she will betray you again.
Her career and her husband have signed so many her husband have signed so many her husband have signed so many disasters and never ever forget. NAFTA disasters and never ever forget NAFTA disasters and never ever forget NAFTA just never ever forget it because you just never ever forget it because you just never ever forget it because you know what it's done and I know what it's know what it's done.
And I know what it's know what it's done, and I know what it's done. And in touring, I've seen the done. And in touring, I've seen the done. And in touring, I've seen the devastation that it's left behind. Here's devastation that it's left behind. Here's devastation that it's left behind. Here's how it would go.
She would make a small how it would go. She would make a small how it would go. She would make a small token change declare the TPP pact, fixed token change declare, the TPP pact, fixed token change, declare, the TPP pact fixed and ram it through and you will suffer and ram it through and you will suffer and ram it through and you will Suffer, that's why Hillary is now only saying that's why Hillary is now only saying that's why Hillary is now only saying she has problems with TPP in its current.
She has problems with TPP in its current. She has problems with TPP in its current form. You know, that means that means like form, you know, that means that means like form, you know, that means that means like they'll make a little two-word change. They'll make a little two-word change. They'll make a little two-word change and she'll fix it and she'll feel great.
And she'll fix it and she'll feel great and she'll fix it, and she'll feel great. But she says in its current form, she can. But she says in its current form, she can. But she says in its current form, she can rush to embrace it again. And she will at rush to embrace it again and she will at rush to embrace it again and she will at the earliest opportunity if the media, the earliest opportunity, if the media, the earliest opportunity, if the media doesn't believe me, I have a challenge, doesn't believe Me I have a challenge, doesn't believe me.
I have a challenge for you and Hillary asked. Hillary, if for you and Hillary asked Hillary, if for you and Hillary asked, Hillary, if she's willing to withdraw from the TPP, she's willing to withdraw from the TPP. She's willing to withdraw from the TPP her her, her stay in office and unconditionally rule, stay in office and unconditionally rule, stay in office and unconditionally rule out his passage in any form.
There is no way to fix TPP. We need - there is no way to fix TPP. We need - there is no way to fix TPP. We need bilateral trade deals. We do not need to bilateral trade deals. We do not need to bilateral trade deals. We do not need to enter into another massive international enter into another massive international enter into another massive international agreement that ties us up and binds us agreement that ties us up and binds us agreement that ties us up and binds us down.
Like TPP does. A Trump down like TPP does a Trump down like TPP does, a Trump administration will change, our failed administration will change. Our failed administration will change our failed trade policies and I mean quickly thank you here are seven steps. I would thank you here are seven steps. I would thank you here are seven steps I would pursue right away to bring back our jobs, pursue right away to bring back our jobs, pursue right away to bring back our jobs.
Number one, I am going to withdraw the number one. I am going to withdraw the number one, I am going to withdraw the United States from the trans-pacific United States from the trans-pacific United States from the trans-pacific partnership which has not yet been partnership which has not yet been partnership which has not yet been ratified.
I'm going to appoint the ratified, I'm going to appoint the ratified, I'm going to appoint the toughest and smartest and I know more toughest and smartest and I know more toughest and smartest and I know more trade negotiators to fight on behalf of trade negotiators to fight On behalf of trade negotiators to fight on behalf of American workers, I'm going to direct the American workers.
I'm going to direct the American workers. I'm going to direct the Secretary of Commerce to identify every Secretary of Commerce to identify every Secretary of Commerce to identify every violation of trade agreements. A foreign violation of trade agreements, a foreign violation of trade agreements a foreign country is currently using to harm you country is currently using to harm you country is currently using to harm you the American worker.
I will then direct all appropriate. I will then direct all appropriate I will then direct all appropriate agencies to use every tool under agencies to use every tool under agencies to use every tool under American and international law to end American and international law to end American and international law.
To end these abuses and abuse is the right word. Number four, I'm going to tell our NAFTA number four, I'm going to tell our NAFTA number four, I'm going to tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately partners that I intend to immediately partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement, renegotiate The terms of that agreement renegotiate the terms of that agreement to get a better deal by a lot, not just a - to get a better deal by a lot, not just a - to get a better deal by a lot, not just a little by a lot for Our workers and if little by a lot for our workers and if little by a lot for our workers and if they don't agree to a renegotiation, they don't agree to a renegotiation.
They don't agree to a renegotiation which they might not because they're so which they might not because they're so which they might not because they're so used to having their own way, not with used to having their own way, not with used to having their own way. Not with Trump, they won't have their own way then Trump, they won't have their own way, then Trump, they won't have their own way.
Then I will submit under Article 22:05 of the - I will submit under Article 22:05 of the - I will submit under Article 22:05 of the NAFTA agreement that America intends to NAFTA agreement that America intends to NAFTA agreement that America intends to withdraw from the deal number five. I'm withdraw from the deal.
Number five, I'm withdraw from the deal. Number five, I'm going to instruct my Treasury secretary going to instruct my Treasury secretary going to instruct my Treasury secretary to label China a currency manipulator to label China, a currency manipulator to label China, a currency manipulator which should have been done years ago.
Any country that devalues their currency, any country that devalues their currency, any country that devalues their currency in order to take unfair advantage of the - in order to take unfair advantage of the - in order to take unfair advantage of the United States, which is many countries United States, which is many countries, United States which is many countries will be met with sharply and that will be met with sharply and that will be met with sharply and that includes tariffs and taxes.
Number six, I'm going to instruct the US number six. I'm going to instruct the US number six. I'm going to instruct the US Trade Representative to bring trade Trade Representative to bring trade Trade Representative to bring trade cases against China, both in this country cases against China, both in this country cases against China, both in this country and at the WTO. China's unfair subsidy.
And at the WTO, China's unfair subsidy and at the WTO, China's unfair subsidy behavior is prohibited. By the terms of behavior is prohibited by the terms of behavior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance to the WTO and I intend to its entrance to the WTO and I intend to its entrance to the WTO and I intend to enforce those rules and Regulations and enforce those rules and regulations and enforce those rules and regulations and basically I intend to enforce the - basically I intend to enforce the - basically I intend to enforce the agreements for all countries including agreements for all countries including agreements for all countries including China, 7. If China does not stop its China 7, if China does not stop its China 7, if China does not stop its illegal activities including its theft illegal activities including its theft illegal activities, including its theft of American trade secrets, I will use of American trade secrets.
I will use of American trade secrets, I will use every lawful present, they look, this is every lawful present, they look, this is every lawful present, they look, this is very easy, this is so easy, I love saying very easy, this is so easy, I love saying Very easy, this is so easy, I love saying this, I will use every lawful this I will use every lawful.
This I will use every lawful presidential power to remedy trade presidential power to remedy trade presidential power to remedy trade disputes, including the application of disputes, including the application of disputes, including the application of tariffs consistent with section 201 and tariffs consistent with section 201 and tariffs Consistent with section 201 and 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 and section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 and section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 and section 232 of the trade expansion act of 1962. 232 of the trade expansion act of 1962. 232. Of the trade expansion act of 1962 and when they say trade expansion and when they say trade expansion and when they say trade expansion, they're talking about other countries, they're talking about other countries, they're talking about other countries.
They're not talking about us because they're not talking about us because they're not talking about us because there is no expansion. They get the - there is no expansion. They get the - there is no expansion. They get the expansion, we get the joblessness that's expansion. We get the joblessness that's expansion, we get the joblessness, that's the way it works, not gonna happen the way it works, not gonna happen the way it works, not gonna happen anymore.
President Reagan deployed similar trade President, Reagan deployed, similar trade President, Reagan deployed similar trade measures when motorcycle and measures when motorcycle and measures when motorcycle and semiconductor imports threatened US semiconductor imports threatened US semiconductor imports threatened US industry.
I remember his tariff on industry. I remember his tariff on industry, I remember his tariff on Japanese motorcycles was 45 % and his Japanese motorcycles was 45 % and his Japanese motorcycles was 45 % and his tariffs to shield America's tariffs to shield America's tariffs to shield America's semiconductor industry was 100 percent.
Semiconductor industry was 100 percent, semiconductor industry was 100 percent and that had a big impact folks a big - and that had a big impact folks a big - and that had a big impact folks, a big impact. Hillary Clinton and her campaign impact Hillary Clinton and her campaign impact Hillary Clinton and her campaign of fear will try to spread the lie.
That of fear will try to spread the lie. That of fear will try to spread the lie that these actions will start a trade war you. These actions will start a trade war you. These actions will start a trade war. You already have a trade work and we're already have a trade work and we're already have a trade work and we're losing badly, badly.
She has it completely losing badly, badly. She has it completely losing badly, badly. She has it completely backwards. Hillary clinton unleashed a backwards hillary clinton unleashed, a backwards hillary clinton unleashed, a trade war against the american worker, trade war against the american worker, trade war against the american worker when she supported one terrible deal when she supported one terrible deal when she supported one terrible Deal after another from nafta to China to after another from nafta to China to after another from nafta to China to South Korea, it doesn't matter South Korea, it doesn't matter.
South Korea, it doesn't matter no matter where she went the American no matter where she went. The American no matter where she went, the American worker was hurt and you will be heard worker was hurt and you will be heard worker was hurt and you will be heard worse than ever before if she becomes worse than ever before.
If she becomes worse than ever before, if she becomes president of the United States that I - president of the United States, that I - president of the United States that I can't a trump administration will end that war. A trump administration will end that war. A trump administration will end that war by getting a fair deal for the American by getting a fair deal for the American by getting a fair deal for the American people and the American worker, the era people and the American worker, the era people and the American Worker the era of economic surrender will finally be of economic surrender will finally be of economic surrender will finally be over.
Over over they'll be over. You're not gonna see it, they'll be over. You're not gonna see it, they'll be over. You're not gonna see it anymore. Hello? I can't guarantee it anymore. Hello? I can't guarantee it anymore. Hello. I can't guarantee it because after me they'll probably start because after me they'll probably start because after me they'll probably start doing it again.
But we will have four and doing it again, but we will have four and doing it again, but we will have four and maybe eight. Great, great, great, productive, maybe eight. Great, great, great, productive, maybe eight great, great, great productive years and we'll never go back and we'll years and we'll never go back and we'll years and we'll never go back and we'll make sure we never go back.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much everybody. Appreciated a new very much. Everybody appreciated a new very much everybody appreciated a new era of prosperity will finally begin. Era of prosperity. Will finally begin, era of prosperity will finally begin.
America will be independent America will be independent America will be independent once more independent once more doesn't once more independent once more doesn't once more independent once more doesn't that sound great under a trump that sound great. Under a trump that sound great, under a trump presidency, the American worker will presidency, the American worker will presidency, the American worker will finally have a president who will finally have a president who will finally have a president who will protect them and fight for them.
We will protect them and fight for them. We will protect them and fight for them. We will stand up to trade cheating, cheating, stand up to trade, cheating, cheating, stand up to trade, cheating, cheating, cheaters, that's what they are cheaters cheaters, that's what they are cheaters cheaters. That's what they are cheaters we will stand up to trade cheating.
We will stand up to trade cheating. We will stand up to trade cheating anywhere and everywhere it threatens the anywhere and everywhere it threatens the anywhere and everywhere it threatens the American job. We will make America the best place in. We will make America the best place in. We will make America the best place in the world to start a business.
We'll hire the world to start a business. We'll hire the world to start a business. We'll hire workers and we'll open factories and workers and we'll open factories and workers and we'll open factories and we'll get rid of these horrible. We'll get rid of these horrible. We'll get rid of these horrible regulations that make it impossible to regulations that make it impossible to regulations that make it impossible to do business in this country.
This will do business in this country. This will do business in this country. This will also include massive tax reform to lift, also include massive tax reform to lift also include massive tax reform to lift the crushing burdens on American workers, the crushing burdens on American workers, the crushing burdens on American workers and businesses.
We will also get rid of and businesses we will also get rid of and businesses. We will also get rid of all of these rules and all of these - all of these rules and all of these - all of these rules and all of these problems and all of the bureaucracy problems and all of the bureaucracy problems and all of the bureaucracy which Are destroying absolutely which are destroying absolutely, which are destroying absolutely destroying our job creation capacity, destroying our job creation capacity, destroying our job creation capacity, which we used to be the best in the - which we used to be the best in the - which we used to be.
The best in the world and now we're getting close to the world and now we're getting close to the world and now we're getting close to the bottom folks. We're getting close to the bottom folks. We're getting close to the bottom folks. We're getting close to the bottom. Many people think that these bottom, many people think that these bottom.
Many people think that these regulations are an even greater regulations are an even greater regulations are an even greater impediment than the fact that we are one impediment than the fact that we are one impediment than the fact that we are one of the highest tax nations In the world of the highest tax nations in the world of the highest tax nations in the world, we're also going to fully capture.
We're also going to fully capture. We're also going to fully capture America's tremendous energy capacity. America's tremendous energy capacity, America's tremendous energy capacity. This will create for our workers and this will create for our workers and this will create for our workers and that's what we want for our workers.
That's what we want for our workers. That's what we want for our workers growth for our economy and begin growth for our economy and begin growth for our economy and begin reducing our budget deficits which are reducing our budget deficits which are reducing our budget deficits which are massive yearly budget deficits, massive, massive Yearly budget deficits, massive, massive yearly budget deficits, massive trade deficits.
We don't even want to trade deficits. We don't even want to trade deficits. We don't even want to talk about it. Our budget deficits are talk about it. Our budget deficits are talk about it. Our budget deficits are massive. Hillary Clinton wants to shut massive Hillary Clinton wants to shut massive. Hillary Clinton wants to shut down energy production and shut down the down energy production and shut down the down energy production and shut down the mines.
And she wants to shut down and she mines and she wants to shut down and she mines and she wants to shut down. And she said it just recently, she wants to shut said it just recently, she wants to shut said it, just recently she wants to shut down the miners. I want to do exactly the down the miners. I want to do exactly the down the miners.
I want to do exactly the opposite. A trump administration will also ensure a trump administration will also ensure a trump administration will also ensure that we start using American steel for that. We start using American steel for that. We start using American steel for American infrastructure and aluminum, just like the American steel from just like the American steel from just like the American steel from Pennsylvania that built the Empire State, Pennsylvania that built the Empire State Pennsylvania that built the Empire State Building to do It built the Empire State Building to do it, built the Empire State Building to do it, built the Empire State Building.
It will be American steel that Building. It will be American steel. That Building it will be American steel that will fortify America's crumbling bridges, will fortify America's crumbling bridges, will fortify America's crumbling bridges American steel. It will be American steel. It will be American steel that sends our - it will be American steel that sends our - it will be American steel that sends our skyscrapers soaring, soaring into the sky, skyscrapers soaring, soaring into the sky, skyscrapers soaring, soaring into the sky beautiful, Sun more beautiful with beautiful Sun.
More beautiful with beautiful Sun, more beautiful with American steel, it will be American steel, American steel. It will be American steel, American steel. It will be American steel that rebuilds our inner cities. It will that rebuilds our inner cities. It will that rebuilds our inner cities. It will be American hands that remake this, be American hands that remake this be American hands that remake this country and it will be American energy country and it will be American energy country and it will be American energy mined from American resources that mined from American Resources that mined from American resources that powers this country, it will be American workers who are - it will be American workers who are - it will be American workers who are hired to do the job.
Nobody else American hired to do the job. Nobody else American hired to do the job, nobody else American workers, we are going to put American workers, we are going to put American workers, we are going to put American steel and aluminum back in to the steel and aluminum back in to the steel and aluminum Back in to the backbone of our country, this alone will backbone of our country.
This alone will backbone of our country. This alone will create massive numbers of jobs, create massive numbers of jobs, create massive numbers of jobs, high-paying jobs, good jobs, not the jobs, high-paying jobs, good jobs, not the jobs, high-paying jobs, good jobs, not the jobs we have today, which everybody agrees are we have today, Which everybody agrees are we have today which everybody agrees are bad jobs, we're gonna create massive bad jobs.
We're gonna create massive bad jobs. We're gonna create massive numbers of good jobs on trade, on numbers of good jobs, on trade, on numbers of good jobs, on trade, on immigration, on foreign policy, we are immigration on foreign policy. We are immigration on foreign policy. We are going to put America first again, we are going to put America first again, we are going to put America first again, we are going to make America wealthy again.
We going to make America wealthy again. We going to make America wealthy again. We are going to reject Hillary Clinton's are going to reject Hillary Clinton's are going to reject Hillary Clinton's policy of fear and her policy of policy of fear and her policy of policy of fear and her policy of absolute nonsense because it's not absolute nonsense because it's Not absolute nonsense because it's not working and it's grossly incompetent and working and it's grossly incompetent and working and it's grossly incompetent and we can't take it any longer.
And we're - we can't take it any longer. And we're - we can't take it any longer. And we're not going to take it any longer. We are not going to take it any longer. We are not going to take it any longer. We are going to embrace the possibilities of going to embrace the possibilities of going to embrace the possibilities of change.
But real change, not Obama change change but real change, not Obama change change but real change not Obama change real change, it's time to believe in the real change. It's time to believe in the real change. It's time to believe in the future. It's time to believe in each future. It's time to believe in each future.
It's time to believe in each other. It's time to believe in America other, it's time to believe in America other. It's time to believe in America. Again, this is how we are going to make again, this is how we are going to make again, this is how we are going to make America great again for all Americans America, great again for all Americans America, great again for all Americans, for all Americans, we're Going to make America great again, we're going to make America great again.
We're going to make America great again for everyone, for everyone, for everyone greater than ever before and I promise greater than ever before and I promise greater than ever before. And I promise you, if I become president, we are going you, if I become president, we are going you, if I become president, we are going to be working again to be working again to be working again.
We are going to have great jobs. Again, we are going to have great jobs. Again, we are going to have great jobs again you're gonna be so happy you're gonna be you're gonna be so happy you're gonna be you're gonna be so happy you're gonna be proud of your president, you're gonna be proud of. Your president, you're gonna be proud of your president, you're gonna be proud, proud, proud of our country once proud, proud, proud of our country once proud, proud, proud of our country.
Once again, thank you very much. I appreciate again. Thank you very much. I appreciate again, thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you very much. I it. Thank you. Thank you very much. I it. Thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Very appreciate it. Thank you.